README.md, before:

# Node.js Internationalization

## Contributing

Help us get the documentation translated into your native language and reach more people's hearts.
**Visit [Crowdin/project/NodeJs](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs)** and help translating docs

### Languages being Translated

- [Arabic](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/ar)
- [Chinese Simplified](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/zh-CN)
- [Chinese Traditional](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/zh-TW)
- [Croatian](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/hr)
- [Czech](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/cs)
- [Danish](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/da)
- [Dutch](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/nl)
- [Finnish](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/fi)
- [French](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/fr)
- [German](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/de)
- [Greek](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/el)
- [Hebrew](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/he)
- [Hindi](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/hi)
- [Hungarian](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/hu)
- [Indonesian](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/id)
- [Italian](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/it)
- [Japanese](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/ja)
- [Korean](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/ko)
- [Norwegian](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/no)
- [Polish](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/pl)
- [Portuguese](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/pt-PT)
- [Portuguese (Brazil)](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/pt-BR)
- [Romanian](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/ro)
- [Russian](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/ru)
- [Slovak](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/sk)
- [Spanish](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/es-ES)
- [Swedish](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/sv-SE)
- [Thai](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/th)
- [Turkish](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/tr)
- [Ukrainian](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/uk)
- [Vietnamese](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/vi)

## About

The Node.js i18n Working Group is dedicated to the support and improvement of both Internationalization (i18n) and Localization (l10n) within the [Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node) project. This Working Group serves as a function of the [Node.js Community Committee](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee).

_Small note: If you do not speak English, go to the [Need Translators?](#need-translators) section._

### What we're responsible for

- The ongoing translation of the [Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node) project's textual content into every language of its users.
- The implementation of i18n support including [ECMA-402](https://tc39.github.io/ecma402/) within [Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node).
- Ensuring Node.js is compliant with common standards like [Unicode](https://unicode.org/), [CLDR](http://cldr.unicode.org/), and harmonized with other globalization efforts.

### What i18n (Internationalization) means to us

Maintaining the ability for Node.js to [effectively support](https://nodejs.org/api/intl.html#intl_internationalization_support) the cultural & socio-linguistic preferences of all international users, through:

- [Unicode](https://unicode.org) processing and related services to support text written in all human languages.
- APIs and implementations which support the specific cultural & socio-linguistic preferences, such as localized methods for displaying dates & times.
- The ability for [Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node) and its related modules & applications to be translated into distinct human languages.

### What l10n (Localization) means to us

- Making the Node.js project's API documentation, site, and tutorial content available in every language.
- The responsibility to provide translators with a useful platform to work in.
- The responsibility to provision Node.js with all l10n assets, through coordination with [Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node) core contributors.
- Members of this group are not responsible for performing the act of translation itself.

#### Summary of our Responsibilities

1. Supporting l10n groups who are actively translating the content of [Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node) into their own languages.
2. i18n support for [Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node), and its related initiatives.
3. Ensuring i18n compliance with all relevant standards such as [Unicode](https://unicode.org) and [ECMA-402](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402).
4. Continual refinement and maintenance of the i18n Working Group's processes, platform service accounts, and related module repositories & source code.

### Our Current Trajectory

Please read [this article](https://medium.com/the-node-js-collection/internationalizing-node-js-fe7761798b0a) to get up to speed on our current trajectory.

## Inter-project relationships

In order to ensure best practices, this working group may work directly with representatives of similar and related i18n efforts from other external projects. For example:

- [Electron i18n](https://github.com/electron/i18n)
- [W3C i18n Working Group](https://www.w3.org/International/core/Overview)
- [ECMA-402](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402) (Together with ECMA-262, specifies the i18n features of JavaScript)
- [V8 i18n](https://github.com/v8/v8/wiki/i18n-support) (implements ECMA-402 in Node.js)
- [Unicode](https://unicode.org):
  - [The Unicode Standard](https://unicode.org/standard/) (defines how text is encoded)
  - [CLDR](http://cldr.unicode.org) (Common Locale Data Repository)
  - [ICU](http://icu-project.org) (C/C++ i18n library used by v8 and Node.js)

## Current Members

| Name                | GitHub                                                    | Twitter                                                  |
| :------------------ | :-------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------- |
| Adam Miller         | [amiller-gh](https://github.com/amiller-gh)               | [millea9](https://twitter.com/millea9)                   |
| Aissaoui Ahmed      | [Aissaoui Ahmed](https://github.com/Aissaoui-Ahmed)       | [Aissaoui Ahmed](https://twitter.com/3issaoui_Ahmed)     |
| Alexandr Tovmach    | [alexandrtovmach](https://github.com/alexandrtovmach)     | [alexandrtovmach](https://twitter.com/alexandrtovmach)   |
| Alexey Temnykov     | [Alex-Temny](https://github.com/Alex-Temny)               | [temnykov](https://twitter.com/temnykov)                 |
| Amor                | [amorist](https://github.com/amorist)                     | [amor90s](https://twitter.com/amor90s)                   |
| Andrew Bus          | [iAndrewCA](https://github.com/iAndrewCA)                 | [AndrewPaulBus](https://twitter.com/AndrewPaulBus)       |
| Antoine Olivier     | [Toinane](https://github.com/Toinane)                     | [Toinane](https://twitter.com/Toinane)                   |
| Benjamin Zaslavsky  | [Tiriel](https://github.com/Tiriel)                       | [Ben_Tiriel](https://twitter.com/Ben_Tiriel)             |
| Ben Michel          | [obensource](https://github.com/obensource)               | [obensource](https://twitter.com/obensource)             |
| Dhruv Jain          | [maddhruv](https://github.com/maddhruv)                   | [maddhruv](https://twitter.com/maddhruv)                 |
| Franz de Copenhague | [FranzDeCopenhague](https://github.com/FranzDeCopenhague) | [FranzDeCopenhague](https://twitter.com/FranzDeCopenhag) |
| Ilyes Chouia        | [Ilyes Chouia](https://github.com/celyes)                 | [Ilyes Chouia](https://twitter.com/celyes01)             |
| Jonathan Cardoso    | [JCMais](https://github.com/JCMais)                       | [\_jonathancardos](https://twitter.com/_jonathancardos)  |
| Laurent Goderre     | [LaurentGoderre](https://github.com/LaurentGoderre)       | [LaurentGoderre](https://twitter.com/LaurentGoderre)     |
| Łukasz Szewczak     | [lukaszewczak](https://github.com/lukaszewczak)           | [lukaszewczak](https://twitter.com/lukaszewczak)         |
| Rachel White        | [rachelnicole](https://github.com/rachelnicole)           | [ohhoe](https://twitter.com/ohhoe)                       |
| Raja Sekar          | [rajzshkr](https://github.com/rajzshkr)                   | [rajzshkr](https://twitter.com/rajzshkr)                 |
| Richard Littauer    | [RichardLitt](https://github.com/RichardLitt)             | [richlitt](https://twitter.com/richlitt)                 |
| Ryo Aramaki         | [ryo-a](https://github.com/ryo-a)                         | [geo_vitya](https://twitter.com/geo_vitya)               |
| Sam Yamashita       | [sotayamashita](https://github.com/sotayamashita)         | [sota0805](https://twitter.com/sota0805)                 |
| Steven R. Loomis    | [srl295](https://github.com/srl295)                       | [srl295](https://twitter.com/srl295)                     |
| Tiago Danin         | [TiagoDanin](https://github.com/TiagoDanin)               | [\_TiagoEDGE](https://twitter.com/_TiagoEDGE)            |
| Vanessa Yuen        | [vanessayuenn](https://github.com/vanessayuenn)           | [vanessayuenn](https://twitter.com/vanessayuenn)         |
| Volkan Nazmi Metin  | [Volem](https://github.com/Volem)                         | [volemnic](https://twitter.com/volemnic)                 |
| Wexpo Lyu           | [laosb](https://github.com/laosb)                         | [it99p](https://twitter.com/it99p)                       |
| Yuki Okushi         | [JohnTitor](https://github.com/JohnTitor)                 | [JustM0nik4](https://twitter.com/JustM0nik4)             |
| Zeke Sikelianos     | [zeke](https://github.com/zeke)                           | [zeke](https://twitter.com/zeke)                         |

## Current l10n groups we support

- [Arabic (nodejs-ar)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-ar)
- [Bengali (nodejs-bn)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-bn)
- [Bulgarian (nodejs-bg)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-bg)
- [Chinese (nodejs-zh-CN)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-zh-CN)
- [Czech (nodejs-cs)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-cs)
- [Danish (nodejs-da)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-da)
- [Dutch (nodejs-nl)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-nl)
- [Finnish (nodejs-fi)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-fi)
- [French (nodejs-fr)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-fr)
- [Georgian (nodejs-ka)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-ka)
- [German (nodejs-de)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-de)
- [Greek (nodejs-el)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-el)
- [Hebrew (nodejs-he)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-he)
- [Hindi (nodejs-hi)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-hi)
- [Hungarian (nodejs-hu)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-hu)
- [Indonesian (nodejs-id)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-id)
- [Italian (nodejs-it)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-it)
- [Japanese (nodejs-ja)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-ja)
- [Macedonian (nodejs-mk)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-mk)
- [Malay (nodejs-ms)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-ms)
- [Norwegian (nodejs-no)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-no)
- [Persian (nodejs-fa)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-fa)
- [Polish (nodejs-pl)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-pl)
- [Portuguese (nodejs-pt)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-pt)
- [Russian (nodejs-ru)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-ru)
- [Spanish (nodejs-es)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-es)
- [Swahili (nodejs-sw)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-sw)
- [Swedish (nodejs-sv)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-sv)
- [Taiwan (nodejs-zh-TW)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-zh-TW)
- [Tamil (nodejs-ta)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-ta)
- [Turkish (nodejs-tr)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-tr)
- [Ukrainian (nodejs-uk)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-uk)
- [Vietnamese (nodejs-vi)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-vi)

## Joining

If you're interested in joining this group, or would like to leave a question or comment for its members - please [create an issue](https://github.com/nodejs/i18n/issues/new) or submit a pull request.

## Need Translators

If you cannot speak or read English easily, we can provide translators for this group's documents and during our video meetings. Please get in touch with [Ben Michel](https://twitter.com/obensource) or [Zeke Sikelianos](https://twitter.com/zeke) and ask for help for your language.

---

_This document was influenced by the [nodejs/Intl](https://github.com/nodejs/Intl/blob/master/README.md) working group's mandate, and is seen as a continuation of that work._

Commit message:

Add a Glossary note in the README
See #81.

README.md, after:

# Node.js Internationalization

## Contributing

Help us get the documentation translated into your native language and reach more people's hearts.
**Visit [Crowdin/project/NodeJs](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs)** and help translating docs

### Languages being Translated

- [Arabic](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/ar)
- [Chinese Simplified](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/zh-CN)
- [Chinese Traditional](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/zh-TW)
- [Croatian](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/hr)
- [Czech](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/cs)
- [Danish](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/da)
- [Dutch](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/nl)
- [Finnish](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/fi)
- [French](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/fr)
- [German](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/de)
- [Greek](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/el)
- [Hebrew](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/he)
- [Hindi](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/hi)
- [Hungarian](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/hu)
- [Indonesian](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/id)
- [Italian](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/it)
- [Japanese](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/ja)
- [Korean](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/ko)
- [Norwegian](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/no)
- [Polish](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/pl)
- [Portuguese](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/pt-PT)
- [Portuguese (Brazil)](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/pt-BR)
- [Romanian](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/ro)
- [Russian](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/ru)
- [Slovak](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/sk)
- [Spanish](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/es-ES)
- [Swedish](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/sv-SE)
- [Thai](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/th)
- [Turkish](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/tr)
- [Ukrainian](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/uk)
- [Vietnamese](https://crowdin.com/project/nodejs/vi)

### CrowdIn Glossary

We have a [CrowdIn Glossary](crowdin-glossary.json) that has some terms which are noted as shared or translateable across the project. If a term is missing, please add it! This glossary will automatically be used by CrowdIn to let translators know about each term when they come across them. 

## About

The Node.js i18n Working Group is dedicated to the support and improvement of both Internationalization (i18n) and Localization (l10n) within the [Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node) project. This Working Group serves as a function of the [Node.js Community Committee](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee).

_Small note: If you do not speak English, go to the [Need Translators?](#need-translators) section._

### What we're responsible for

- The ongoing translation of the [Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node) project's textual content into every language of its users.
- The implementation of i18n support including [ECMA-402](https://tc39.github.io/ecma402/) within [Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node).
- Ensuring Node.js is compliant with common standards like [Unicode](https://unicode.org/), [CLDR](http://cldr.unicode.org/), and harmonized with other globalization efforts.

### What i18n (Internationalization) means to us

Maintaining the ability for Node.js to [effectively support](https://nodejs.org/api/intl.html#intl_internationalization_support) the cultural & socio-linguistic preferences of all international users, through:

- [Unicode](https://unicode.org) processing and related services to support text written in all human languages.
- APIs and implementations which support the specific cultural & socio-linguistic preferences, such as localized methods for displaying dates & times.
- The ability for [Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node) and its related modules & applications to be translated into distinct human languages.

### What l10n (Localization) means to us

- Making the Node.js project's API documentation, site, and tutorial content available in every language.
- The responsibility to provide translators with a useful platform to work in.
- The responsibility to provision Node.js with all l10n assets, through coordination with [Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node) core contributors.
- Members of this group are not responsible for performing the act of translation itself.

#### Summary of our Responsibilities

1. Supporting l10n groups who are actively translating the content of [Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node) into their own languages.
2. i18n support for [Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node), and its related initiatives.
3. Ensuring i18n compliance with all relevant standards such as [Unicode](https://unicode.org) and [ECMA-402](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402).
4. Continual refinement and maintenance of the i18n Working Group's processes, platform service accounts, and related module repositories & source code.

### Our Current Trajectory

Please read [this article](https://medium.com/the-node-js-collection/internationalizing-node-js-fe7761798b0a) to get up to speed on our current trajectory.

## Inter-project relationships

In order to ensure best practices, this working group may work directly with representatives of similar and related i18n efforts from other external projects. For example:

- [Electron i18n](https://github.com/electron/i18n)
- [W3C i18n Working Group](https://www.w3.org/International/core/Overview)
- [ECMA-402](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402) (Together with ECMA-262, specifies the i18n features of JavaScript)
- [V8 i18n](https://github.com/v8/v8/wiki/i18n-support) (implements ECMA-402 in Node.js)
- [Unicode](https://unicode.org):
  - [The Unicode Standard](https://unicode.org/standard/) (defines how text is encoded)
  - [CLDR](http://cldr.unicode.org) (Common Locale Data Repository)
  - [ICU](http://icu-project.org) (C/C++ i18n library used by v8 and Node.js)

## Current Members

| Name                | GitHub                                                    | Twitter                                                  |
| :------------------ | :-------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------- |
| Adam Miller         | [amiller-gh](https://github.com/amiller-gh)               | [millea9](https://twitter.com/millea9)                   |
| Aissaoui Ahmed      | [Aissaoui Ahmed](https://github.com/Aissaoui-Ahmed)       | [Aissaoui Ahmed](https://twitter.com/3issaoui_Ahmed)     |
| Alexandr Tovmach    | [alexandrtovmach](https://github.com/alexandrtovmach)     | [alexandrtovmach](https://twitter.com/alexandrtovmach)   |
| Alexey Temnykov     | [Alex-Temny](https://github.com/Alex-Temny)               | [temnykov](https://twitter.com/temnykov)                 |
| Amor                | [amorist](https://github.com/amorist)                     | [amor90s](https://twitter.com/amor90s)                   |
| Andrew Bus          | [iAndrewCA](https://github.com/iAndrewCA)                 | [AndrewPaulBus](https://twitter.com/AndrewPaulBus)       |
| Antoine Olivier     | [Toinane](https://github.com/Toinane)                     | [Toinane](https://twitter.com/Toinane)                   |
| Benjamin Zaslavsky  | [Tiriel](https://github.com/Tiriel)                       | [Ben_Tiriel](https://twitter.com/Ben_Tiriel)             |
| Ben Michel          | [obensource](https://github.com/obensource)               | [obensource](https://twitter.com/obensource)             |
| Dhruv Jain          | [maddhruv](https://github.com/maddhruv)                   | [maddhruv](https://twitter.com/maddhruv)                 |
| Franz de Copenhague | [FranzDeCopenhague](https://github.com/FranzDeCopenhague) | [FranzDeCopenhague](https://twitter.com/FranzDeCopenhag) |
| Ilyes Chouia        | [Ilyes Chouia](https://github.com/celyes)                 | [Ilyes Chouia](https://twitter.com/celyes01)             |
| Jonathan Cardoso    | [JCMais](https://github.com/JCMais)                       | [\_jonathancardos](https://twitter.com/_jonathancardos)  |
| Laurent Goderre     | [LaurentGoderre](https://github.com/LaurentGoderre)       | [LaurentGoderre](https://twitter.com/LaurentGoderre)     |
| Łukasz Szewczak     | [lukaszewczak](https://github.com/lukaszewczak)           | [lukaszewczak](https://twitter.com/lukaszewczak)         |
| Rachel White        | [rachelnicole](https://github.com/rachelnicole)           | [ohhoe](https://twitter.com/ohhoe)                       |
| Raja Sekar          | [rajzshkr](https://github.com/rajzshkr)                   | [rajzshkr](https://twitter.com/rajzshkr)                 |
| Richard Littauer    | [RichardLitt](https://github.com/RichardLitt)             | [richlitt](https://twitter.com/richlitt)                 |
| Ryo Aramaki         | [ryo-a](https://github.com/ryo-a)                         | [geo_vitya](https://twitter.com/geo_vitya)               |
| Sam Yamashita       | [sotayamashita](https://github.com/sotayamashita)         | [sota0805](https://twitter.com/sota0805)                 |
| Steven R. Loomis    | [srl295](https://github.com/srl295)                       | [srl295](https://twitter.com/srl295)                     |
| Tiago Danin         | [TiagoDanin](https://github.com/TiagoDanin)               | [\_TiagoEDGE](https://twitter.com/_TiagoEDGE)            |
| Vanessa Yuen        | [vanessayuenn](https://github.com/vanessayuenn)           | [vanessayuenn](https://twitter.com/vanessayuenn)         |
| Volkan Nazmi Metin  | [Volem](https://github.com/Volem)                         | [volemnic](https://twitter.com/volemnic)                 |
| Wexpo Lyu           | [laosb](https://github.com/laosb)                         | [it99p](https://twitter.com/it99p)                       |
| Yuki Okushi         | [JohnTitor](https://github.com/JohnTitor)                 | [JustM0nik4](https://twitter.com/JustM0nik4)             |
| Zeke Sikelianos     | [zeke](https://github.com/zeke)                           | [zeke](https://twitter.com/zeke)                         |

## Current l10n groups we support

- [Arabic (nodejs-ar)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-ar)
- [Bengali (nodejs-bn)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-bn)
- [Bulgarian (nodejs-bg)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-bg)
- [Chinese (nodejs-zh-CN)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-zh-CN)
- [Czech (nodejs-cs)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-cs)
- [Danish (nodejs-da)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-da)
- [Dutch (nodejs-nl)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-nl)
- [Finnish (nodejs-fi)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-fi)
- [French (nodejs-fr)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-fr)
- [Georgian (nodejs-ka)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-ka)
- [German (nodejs-de)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-de)
- [Greek (nodejs-el)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-el)
- [Hebrew (nodejs-he)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-he)
- [Hindi (nodejs-hi)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-hi)
- [Hungarian (nodejs-hu)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-hu)
- [Indonesian (nodejs-id)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-id)
- [Italian (nodejs-it)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-it)
- [Japanese (nodejs-ja)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-ja)
- [Macedonian (nodejs-mk)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-mk)
- [Malay (nodejs-ms)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-ms)
- [Norwegian (nodejs-no)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-no)
- [Persian (nodejs-fa)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-fa)
- [Polish (nodejs-pl)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-pl)
- [Portuguese (nodejs-pt)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-pt)
- [Russian (nodejs-ru)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-ru)
- [Spanish (nodejs-es)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-es)
- [Swahili (nodejs-sw)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-sw)
- [Swedish (nodejs-sv)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-sv)
- [Taiwan (nodejs-zh-TW)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-zh-TW)
- [Tamil (nodejs-ta)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-ta)
- [Turkish (nodejs-tr)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-tr)
- [Ukrainian (nodejs-uk)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-uk)
- [Vietnamese (nodejs-vi)](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-vi)

## Joining

If you're interested in joining this group, or would like to leave a question or comment for its members - please [create an issue](https://github.com/nodejs/i18n/issues/new) or submit a pull request.

## Need Translators

If you cannot speak or read English easily, we can provide translators for this group's documents and during our video meetings. Please get in touch with [Ben Michel](https://twitter.com/obensource) or [Zeke Sikelianos](https://twitter.com/zeke) and ask for help for your language.

---

_This document was influenced by the [nodejs/Intl](https://github.com/nodejs/Intl/blob/master/README.md) working group's mandate, and is seen as a continuation of that work._
