# Node.js i18n Working Group Meeting

2018.05.15

Planning board: https://github.com/nodejs/i18n/projects/1

## Attendees

- @zeke (GitHub on the Electron team, deals with i18n)
- @obensource (InVision Dev Advocate, CommComm)
- @RichardLitt (low resource language researcher)
- @Vanessayuenn (Also on Electron, i18n)
- Andriy (CrowdIn)
- Mikhailo (CrowdIn)
- @TiagoDanin (Also on Electron, i18n)
- @maddhruv (Member of Website Redesign and i18n)
- @bnb (DevAdvocate at Node Source, chair of CommComm)

## Notes

### Introductions

- No notes really taken, some small notes put above

### Agenda

- Continuous integration #58
- Translation languages #70
- Versions to Translate #71
- Website content to be translated #72
- Set up the Crowdin-GitHub integration together, and record it #77
- New project board #82

- @zeke: Let's get CrowdIn to a state where we can start translating NodeDocs
    - There are some blockers. We could do a high-level look at this... but maybe I should just dive in

- CrowdIn: A localization management tool
    - Mikhailo and Andriy are both at Crowdin, here to talk about it
    - Project starts with project creation on the profile page, and you can set up integrations after

- Collect latest major versions of node [#83](https://github.com/nodejs/i18n/pull/83)
    - @zeke made a PR to use major versions instead of smaller versions, to make deduplication earlier
    - Node 9 is also EOL
    - Soon we'll have node 11 and it will be active for a time, but will not have LTS
    - @zeke: anyone mind if we pull node 9? everyone: no.
    - Might be a good idea to push for node 11 as having translations (launch date: 10/31/2018)
    - For now, v6, v8, and v10 are good. We can turn on odd versions as needed
    - Odd versions never have an LTS, and run on a 6-month timecycle.
        - Might be a good idea to include this information in the README for new translators


< There was a 15 minute gap in documenting this meeting >

@maddhruv: I will set up an issue for optimizing getting documentation, as I get time.
@maddhruv: Could we move the docs to another repository to make it easier?
@zeke: I'm not sure. Node has always had the docs in the same repo, and that has been essential to the success of the project, as any code will be in the same repo as the docs which need to be updated. I know this is hard for content collection, and any processes which could update this would be welcome.
