# V8

<!--introduced_in=v4.0.0-->

The `v8` module exposes APIs that are specific to the version of [V8](https://developers.google.com/v8/) built into the Node.js binary. Ci si può accedere utilizzando:

```js
const v8 = require('v8');
```

*Note*: The APIs and implementation are subject to change at any time.

## v8.cachedDataVersionTag()

<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

Returns an integer representing a "version tag" derived from the V8 version, command line flags and detected CPU features. This is useful for determining whether a [`vm.Script`][] `cachedData` buffer is compatible with this instance of V8.

## v8.getHeapSpaceStatistics()

<!-- YAML
added: v6.0.0
changes:

  - version: v7.5.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10186
    description: Support values exceeding the 32-bit unsigned integer range.
-->

Returns statistics about the V8 heap spaces, i.e. the segments which make up the V8 heap. Neither the ordering of heap spaces, nor the availability of a heap space can be guaranteed as the statistics are provided via the V8 [`GetHeapSpaceStatistics`][] function and may change from one V8 version to the next.

Il valore restituito è un array di object contenenti le seguenti proprietà:

* `space_name` {string}
* `space_size` {number}
* `space_used_size` {number}
* `space_available_size` {number}
* `physical_space_size` {number}

Per esempio:

```json
[
  {
    "space_name": "new_space",
    "space_size": 2063872,
    "space_used_size": 951112,
    "space_available_size": 80824,
    "physical_space_size": 2063872
  },
  {
    "space_name": "old_space",
    "space_size": 3090560,
    "space_used_size": 2493792,
    "space_available_size": 0,
    "physical_space_size": 3090560
  },
  {
    "space_name": "code_space",
    "space_size": 1260160,
    "space_used_size": 644256,
    "space_available_size": 960,
    "physical_space_size": 1260160
  },
  {
    "space_name": "map_space",
    "space_size": 1094160,
    "space_used_size": 201608,
    "space_available_size": 0,
    "physical_space_size": 1094160
  },
  {
    "space_name": "large_object_space",
    "space_size": 0,
    "space_used_size": 0,
    "space_available_size": 1490980608,
    "physical_space_size": 0
  }
]
```

## v8.getHeapStatistics()

<!-- YAML
added: v1.0.0
changes:

  - version: v7.2.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/8610
    description: Added `malloced_memory`, `peak_malloced_memory`,
                 and `does_zap_garbage`.
  - version: v7.5.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10186
    description: Support values exceeding the 32-bit unsigned integer range.
-->

Restituisce un object con le seguenti proprietà:

* `total_heap_size` {number}
* `total_heap_size_executable` {number}
* `total_physical_size` {number}
* `total_available_size` {number}
* `used_heap_size` {number}
* `heap_size_limit` {number}
* `malloced_memory` {number}
* `peak_malloced_memory` {number}
* `does_zap_garbage` {number}

`does_zap_garbage` is a 0/1 boolean, which signifies whether the `--zap_code_space` option is enabled or not. This makes V8 overwrite heap garbage with a bit pattern. The RSS footprint (resident memory set) gets bigger because it continuously touches all heap pages and that makes them less likely to get swapped out by the operating system.

Per esempio:

```js
{
  total_heap_size: 7326976,
  total_heap_size_executable: 4194304,
  total_physical_size: 7326976,
  total_available_size: 1152656,
  used_heap_size: 3476208,
  heap_size_limit: 1535115264,
  malloced_memory: 16384,
  peak_malloced_memory: 1127496,
  does_zap_garbage: 0
}
```

## v8.setFlagsFromString(string)<!-- YAML
added: v1.0.0
-->The 

`v8.setFlagsFromString()` method can be used to programmatically set V8 command line flags. This method should be used with care. Changing settings after the VM has started may result in unpredictable behavior, including crashes and data loss; or it may simply do nothing.

The V8 options available for a version of Node.js may be determined by running `node --v8-options`. An unofficial, community-maintained list of options and their effects is available [here](https://github.com/thlorenz/v8-flags/blob/master/flags-0.11.md).

Usage:

```js
// Stampa gli eventi di GC in stdout per un minuto.
const v8 = require('v8');
v8.setFlagsFromString('--trace_gc');
setTimeout(function() { v8.setFlagsFromString('--notrace_gc'); }, 60e3);
```

## API di serializzazione

> Stability: 1 - Experimental

The serialization API provides means of serializing JavaScript values in a way that is compatible with the [HTML structured clone algorithm](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Structured_clone_algorithm). Il formato è retrocompatibile (cioè sicuro da memorizzare su disco).

*Note*: This API is under development, and changes (including incompatible changes to the API or wire format) may occur until this warning is removed.

### v8.serialize(value)<!--
added: v8.0.0
-->

* Restituisce: {Buffer}

Utilizza un [`DefaultSerializer`][] per serializzare `value` in un buffer.

### v8.deserialize(buffer)

<!--
added: v8.0.0
-->

* `buffer` {Buffer|Uint8Array} Un buffer restituito da [`serialize()`][].

Uses a [`DefaultDeserializer`][] with default options to read a JS value from a buffer.

### class: v8.Serializer

<!--
added: v8.0.0
-->

#### new Serializer()

Crea un nuovo `Serializer` object.

#### serializer.writeHeader()

Scrive un'intestazione, che include la versione del formato di serializzazione.

#### serializer.writeValue(value)

Serializes a JavaScript value and adds the serialized representation to the internal buffer.

Ciò genera un errore se `value` non può essere serializzato.

#### serializer.releaseBuffer()

Restituisce il buffer interno memorizzato. This serializer should not be used once the buffer is released. Calling this method results in undefined behavior if a previous write has failed.

#### serializer.transferArrayBuffer(id, arrayBuffer)

* `id` {integer} Un numero intero a 32 bit senza segno.
* `arrayBuffer` {ArrayBuffer} Un'istanza `ArrayBuffer`.

Contrassegna un `ArrayBuffer` come se i suoi contenuti fossero trasferiti fuori banda. Pass the corresponding `ArrayBuffer` in the deserializing context to [`deserializer.transferArrayBuffer()`][].

#### serializer.writeUint32(value)

* `value` {integer}

Scrive un numero raw intero senza segno a 32 bit. Da utilizzare all'interno di un [`serializer._writeHostObject()`][] personalizzato.

#### serializer.writeUint64(hi, lo)

* `hi` {integer}
* `lo` {integer}

Scrive un numero raw intero senza segno a 64 bit, divide in parti alte e basse a 32 bit. Da utilizzare all'interno di un [`serializer._writeHostObject()`][] personalizzato.

#### serializer.writeDouble(value)

* `value` {number}

Scrive un valore `number` JS. Da utilizzare all'interno di un [`serializer._writeHostObject()`][] personalizzato.

#### serializer.writeRawBytes(buffer)

* `buffer` {Buffer|Uint8Array}

Scrive i raw byte nel buffer interno del serializzatore. The deserializer will require a way to compute the length of the buffer. Da utilizzare all'interno di un [`serializer._writeHostObject()`][] personalizzato.

#### serializer.\_writeHostObject(object)

* `object` {Object}

This method is called to write some kind of host object, i.e. an object created by native C++ bindings. If it is not possible to serialize `object`, a suitable exception should be thrown.

This method is not present on the `Serializer` class itself but can be provided by subclasses.

#### serializer.\_getDataCloneError(message)

* `message` {string}

This method is called to generate error objects that will be thrown when an object can not be cloned.

This method defaults to the [`Error`][] constructor and can be overridden on subclasses.

#### serializer.\_getSharedArrayBufferId(sharedArrayBuffer)

* `sharedArrayBuffer` {SharedArrayBuffer}

This method is called when the serializer is going to serialize a `SharedArrayBuffer` object. It must return an unsigned 32-bit integer ID for the object, using the same ID if this `SharedArrayBuffer` has already been serialized. When deserializing, this ID will be passed to [`deserializer.transferArrayBuffer()`][].

Se l'object non può essere serializzato, deve essere generata un'eccezione.

This method is not present on the `Serializer` class itself but can be provided by subclasses.

#### serializer.\_setTreatArrayBufferViewsAsHostObjects(flag)

* `flag` {boolean} **Default:** `false`

Indicate whether to treat `TypedArray` and `DataView` objects as host objects, i.e. pass them to [`serializer._writeHostObject()`][].

### class: v8.Deserializer

<!--
added: v8.0.0
-->

#### new Deserializer(buffer)

* `buffer` {Buffer|Uint8Array} A buffer returned by [`serializer.releaseBuffer()`][].

Crea un nuovo `Deserializer` object.

#### deserializer.readHeader()

Legge e convalida un'intestazione (inclusa la versione del formato). Ad esempio, può rifiutare un formato wire non valido o non supportato. In that case, an `Error` is thrown.

#### deserializer.readValue()

Deserializza un valore JavaScript dal buffer e lo restituisce.

#### deserializer.transferArrayBuffer(id, arrayBuffer)

* `id` {integer} Un numero intero a 32 bit senza segno.
* `arrayBuffer` {ArrayBuffer|SharedArrayBuffer} Un'istanza `ArrayBuffer`.

Contrassegna un `ArrayBuffer` come se i suoi contenuti fossero trasferiti fuori banda. Pass the corresponding `ArrayBuffer` in the serializing context to [`serializer.transferArrayBuffer()`][] (or return the `id` from [`serializer._getSharedArrayBufferId()`][] in the case of `SharedArrayBuffer`s).

#### deserializer.getWireFormatVersion()

* Restituisce: {integer}

Legge la versione del formato wire sottostante. Likely mostly to be useful to legacy code reading old wire format versions. May not be called before `.readHeader()`.

#### deserializer.readUint32()

* Restituisce: {integer}

Legge un numero raw intero senza segno a 32 bit e lo restituisce. Per l'utilizzo all'interno di un [`deserializer._readHostObject()`][] personalizzato.

#### deserializer.readUint64()

* Restituisce: {Array}

Read a raw 64-bit unsigned integer and return it as an array `[hi, lo]` with two 32-bit unsigned integer entries. Per l'utilizzo all'interno di un [`deserializer._readHostObject()`][] personalizzato.

#### deserializer.readDouble()

* Restituisce: {number}

Legge un valore `number` di JS. Per l'utilizzo all'interno di un [`deserializer._readHostObject()`][] personalizzato.

#### deserializer.readRawBytes(length)

* Restituisce: {Buffer}

Legge i raw byte dal buffer interno del deserializzatore. The `length` parameter must correspond to the length of the buffer that was passed to [`serializer.writeRawBytes()`][]. Per l'utilizzo all'interno di un [`deserializer._readHostObject()`][] personalizzato.

#### deserializer.\_readHostObject()

This method is called to read some kind of host object, i.e. an object that is created by native C++ bindings. If it is not possible to deserialize the data, a suitable exception should be thrown.

This method is not present on the `Deserializer` class itself but can be provided by subclasses.

### class: v8.DefaultSerializer

<!--
added: v8.0.0
-->

A subclass of [`Serializer`][] that serializes `TypedArray` (in particular [`Buffer`][]) and `DataView` objects as host objects, and only stores the part of their underlying `ArrayBuffer`s that they are referring to.

### class: v8.DefaultDeserializer

<!--
added: v8.0.0
-->

A subclass of [`Deserializer`][] corresponding to the format written by [`DefaultSerializer`][].