# V8

<!--introduced_in=v4.0.0-->

The `v8` module exposes APIs that are specific to the version of [V8](https://developers.google.com/v8/) built into the Node.js binary. Se puede acceder a él utilizando:

```js
const v8 = require('v8');
```

Las APIs y la implementación están sujetas a cambios en cualquier momento.

## v8.cachedDataVersionTag()

<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

* Devuelve: {integer}

Returns an integer representing a "version tag" derived from the V8 version, command line flags and detected CPU features. This is useful for determining whether a [`vm.Script`][] `cachedData` buffer is compatible with this instance of V8.

## v8.getHeapSpaceStatistics()

<!-- YAML
added: v6.0.0
changes:

  - version: v7.5.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10186
    description: Support values exceeding the 32-bit unsigned integer range.
-->

* Retorno: {Object[]}

Returns statistics about the V8 heap spaces, i.e. the segments which make up the V8 heap. Neither the ordering of heap spaces, nor the availability of a heap space can be guaranteed as the statistics are provided via the V8 [`GetHeapSpaceStatistics`][] function and may change from one V8 version to the next.

El valor devuelto es una matriz de objetos que contiene las siguientes propiedades:

* `space_name` {string}
* `space_size` {number}
* `space_used_size` {number}
* `space_available_size` {number}
* `physical_space_size` {number}

```json
[
  {
    "space_name": "new_space",
    "space_size": 2063872,
    "space_used_size": 951112,
    "space_available_size": 80824,
    "physical_space_size": 2063872
  },
  {
    "space_name": "old_space",
    "space_size": 3090560,
    "space_used_size": 2493792,
    "space_available_size": 0,
    "physical_space_size": 3090560
  },
  {
    "space_name": "code_space",
    "space_size": 1260160,
    "space_used_size": 644256,
    "space_available_size": 960,
    "physical_space_size": 1260160
  },
  {
    "space_name": "map_space",
    "space_size": 1094160,
    "space_used_size": 201608,
    "space_available_size": 0,
    "physical_space_size": 1094160
  },
  {
    "space_name": "large_object_space",
    "space_size": 0,
    "space_used_size": 0,
    "space_available_size": 1490980608,
    "physical_space_size": 0
  }
]
```

## v8.getHeapStatistics()

<!-- YAML
added: v1.0.0
changes:

  - version: v7.2.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/8610
    description: Added `malloced_memory`, `peak_malloced_memory`,
                 and `does_zap_garbage`.
  - version: v7.5.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10186
    description: Support values exceeding the 32-bit unsigned integer range.
-->

* Devuelve: {Object}

Devuelve un objeto con las siguientes propiedades:

* `total_heap_size` {number}
* `total_heap_size_executable` {number}
* `total_physical_size` {number}
* `total_available_size` {number}
* `used_heap_size` {number}
* `heap_size_limit` {number}
* `malloced_memory` {number}
* `peak_malloced_memory` {number}
* `does_zap_garbage` {number}

`does_zap_garbage` is a 0/1 boolean, which signifies whether the `--zap_code_space` option is enabled or not. This makes V8 overwrite heap garbage with a bit pattern. The RSS footprint (resident memory set) gets bigger because it continuously touches all heap pages and that makes them less likely to get swapped out by the operating system.

```js
{
  total_heap_size: 7326976,
  total_heap_size_executable: 4194304,
  total_physical_size: 7326976,
  total_available_size: 1152656,
  used_heap_size: 3476208,
  heap_size_limit: 1535115264,
  malloced_memory: 16384,
  peak_malloced_memory: 1127496,
  does_zap_garbage: 0
}
```

## v8.setFlagsFromString(flags)<!-- YAML
added: v1.0.0
-->

* `flags` {string}

The `v8.setFlagsFromString()` method can be used to programmatically set V8 command line flags. Este método debe ser utilizado con cuidado. Changing settings after the VM has started may result in unpredictable behavior, including crashes and data loss; or it may simply do nothing.

The V8 options available for a version of Node.js may be determined by running `node --v8-options`. An unofficial, community-maintained list of options and their effects is available [here](https://github.com/thlorenz/v8-flags/blob/master/flags-0.11.md).

Uso:

```js
// Imprime eventos GC en stdout por un minuto.
const v8 = require('v8');
v8.setFlagsFromString('--trace_gc');
setTimeout(() => { v8.setFlagsFromString('--notrace_gc'); }, 60e3);
```

## API de Serialización

> Estabilidad: 1 - Experimental

The serialization API provides means of serializing JavaScript values in a way that is compatible with the [HTML structured clone algorithm](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Structured_clone_algorithm). El formato es retrocompatible (es decir, seguro para almacenar en disco).

This API is under development, and changes (including incompatible changes to the API or wire format) may occur until this warning is removed.

### v8.serialize(valor)<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

* `value` {any}

* Devuelve: {Buffer}

Utiliza un [`DefaultSerializer`][] para serializar `value` en un búfer.

### v8.deserialize(búfer)

<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

* `buffer` {Buffer|TypedArray|DataView} A buffer returned by [`serialize()`][].

Uses a [`DefaultDeserializer`][] with default options to read a JS value from a buffer.

### clase: v8.Serializer

<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

#### new Serializer()

Crea un nuevo objeto `Serializer`.

#### serializer.writeHeader()

Writes out a header, which includes the serialization format version.

#### serializer.writeValue(valor)

* `value` {any}

Serializes a JavaScript value and adds the serialized representation to the internal buffer.

Esto arroja un error si no se puede serializar `value`.

#### serializer.releaseBuffer()

* Devuelve: {Buffer}

Devuelve el buffer interno almacenado. This serializer should not be used once the buffer is released. Calling this method results in undefined behavior if a previous write has failed.

#### serializer.transferArrayBuffer(id, arrayBuffer)

* `id` {integer} Un entero de 32 bits sin signo.
* `arrayBuffer` {ArrayBuffer} Una instancia `ArrayBuffer`.

Marca un `ArrayBuffer` que tiene sus propios contenidos transferidos fuera de banda. Pass the corresponding `ArrayBuffer` in the deserializing context to [`deserializer.transferArrayBuffer()`][].

#### serializer.writeUint32(value)

* `value` {integer}

Write a raw 32-bit unsigned integer. Para el uso dentro de un [`serializer._writeHostObject()`][] personalizado.

#### serializer.writeUint64(hi, lo)

* `hi` {integer}
* `lo` {integer}

Write a raw 64-bit unsigned integer, split into high and low 32-bit parts. Para el uso dentro de un [`serializer._writeHostObject()`][] personalizado.

#### serializer.writeDouble(valor)

* `value` {number}

Escribe un valor `number` de JS. Para el uso dentro de un [`serializer._writeHostObject()`][] personalizado.

#### serializer.writeRawBytes(buffer)

* `buffer` {Buffer|TypedArray|DataView}

Write raw bytes into the serializer’s internal buffer. The deserializer will require a way to compute the length of the buffer. Para el uso dentro de un [`serializer._writeHostObject()`][] personalizado.

#### serializer.\_writeHostObject(object)

* `object` {Object}

This method is called to write some kind of host object, i.e. an object created by native C++ bindings. If it is not possible to serialize `object`, a suitable exception should be thrown.

This method is not present on the `Serializer` class itself but can be provided by subclasses.

#### serializer.\_getDataCloneError(mensaje)

* `message` {string}

This method is called to generate error objects that will be thrown when an object can not be cloned.

This method defaults to the [`Error`][] constructor and can be overridden on subclasses.

#### serializer.\_getSharedArrayBufferId(sharedArrayBuffer)

* `sharedArrayBuffer` {SharedArrayBuffer}

This method is called when the serializer is going to serialize a `SharedArrayBuffer` object. It must return an unsigned 32-bit integer ID for the object, using the same ID if this `SharedArrayBuffer` has already been serialized. When deserializing, this ID will be passed to [`deserializer.transferArrayBuffer()`][].

Si el objeto no puede ser serializado, se debe arrojar una excepción.

This method is not present on the `Serializer` class itself but can be provided by subclasses.

#### serializer.\_setTreatArrayBufferViewsAsHostObjects(flag)

* `flag` {boolean} **Predeterminado:** `false`

Indicate whether to treat `TypedArray` and `DataView` objects as host objects, i.e. pass them to [`serializer._writeHostObject()`][].

### clase: v8.Serializer

<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

#### new Deserializer(búfer)

* `buffer` {Buffer|TypedArray|DataView} A buffer returned by [`serializer.releaseBuffer()`][].

Crea un nuevo objeto `Deserializer`.

#### deserializer.readHeader()

Lee y valida una cabecera (incluyendo la versión de formato). Puede, por ejemplo, rechazar un formato de wire inválido o no soportado. In that case, an `Error` is thrown.

#### deserializer.readValue()

Deserializa un valor de JavaScript del buffer y lo devuelve.

#### deserializer.transferArrayBuffer(id, arrayBuffer)

* `id` {integer} Un entero de 32 bits sin signo.
* `arrayBuffer` {ArrayBuffer|SharedArrayBuffer} Una instancia de `ArrayBuffer`.

Marca a un `ArrayBuffer` que tiene sus contenidos transferidos fuera de banda. Pass the corresponding `ArrayBuffer` in the serializing context to [`serializer.transferArrayBuffer()`][] (or return the `id` from [`serializer._getSharedArrayBufferId()`][] in the case of `SharedArrayBuffer`s).

#### deserializer.getWireFormatVersion()

* Devuelve: {integer}

Reads the underlying wire format version. Likely mostly to be useful to legacy code reading old wire format versions. May not be called before `.readHeader()`.

#### deserializer.readUint32()

* Devuelve: {integer}

Read a raw 32-bit unsigned integer and return it. Para el uso dentro de un [`deserializer._readHostObject()`][] personalizado.

#### deserializer.readUint64()

* Devuelve: {integer[]}

Read a raw 64-bit unsigned integer and return it as an array `[hi, lo]` with two 32-bit unsigned integer entries. Para el uso dentro de un [`deserializer._readHostObject()`][] personalizado.

#### deserializer.readDouble()

* Devuelve: {number}

Lee un valor `number` de JS. Para el uso dentro de un [`deserializer._readHostObject()`][] personalizado.

#### deserializer.readRawBytes(longitud)

* `length` {integer}
* Devuelve: {Buffer}

Read raw bytes from the deserializer’s internal buffer. The `length` parameter must correspond to the length of the buffer that was passed to [`serializer.writeRawBytes()`][]. Para el uso dentro de un [`deserializer._readHostObject()`][] personalizado.

#### deserializer.\_readHostObject()

This method is called to read some kind of host object, i.e. an object that is created by native C++ bindings. If it is not possible to deserialize the data, a suitable exception should be thrown.

This method is not present on the `Deserializer` class itself but can be provided by subclasses.

### clase: v8.DefaultSerializer

<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

A subclass of [`Serializer`][] that serializes `TypedArray` (in particular [`Buffer`][]) and `DataView` objects as host objects, and only stores the part of their underlying `ArrayBuffer`s that they are referring to.

### clase: v8.DefaultDeserializer

<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

A subclass of [`Deserializer`][] corresponding to the format written by [`DefaultSerializer`][].