# V8

<!--introduced_in=v4.0.0-->

Il modulo `v8` espone le API specifiche per la versione di [V8](https://developers.google.com/v8/) integrata nel binario Node.js. Ci si può accedere utilizzando:

```js
const v8 = require('v8');
```

Le API e l'implementazione sono soggette a modifiche in qualsiasi momento.

## `v8.cachedDataVersionTag()`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

* Restituisce: {integer}

Returns an integer representing a "version tag" derived from the V8 version, command line flags and detected CPU features. This is useful for determining whether a [`vm.Script`][] `cachedData` buffer is compatible with this instance of V8.

## `v8.getHeapSpaceStatistics()`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.0.0
changes:
  - version: v7.5.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10186
    description: Support values exceeding the 32-bit unsigned integer range.
-->

* Restituisce: {Object[]}

Restituisce statistiche sugli spazi V8 heap, ovvero i segmenti che costituiscono il V8 heap. Né l'ordinamento degli spazi heap, né la disponibilità di uno spazio heap possono essere garantiti in quanto le statistiche vengono fornite tramite la funzione V8 [`GetHeapSpaceStatistics`][] e possono cambiare da una versione V8 a quella successiva.

Il valore restituito è un array di object contenenti le seguenti proprietà:

* `space_name` {string}
* `space_size` {number}
* `space_used_size` {number}
* `space_available_size` {number}
* `physical_space_size` {number}

```json
[
  {
    "space_name": "new_space",
    "space_size": 2063872,
    "space_used_size": 951112,
    "space_available_size": 80824,
    "physical_space_size": 2063872
  },
  {
    "space_name": "old_space",
    "space_size": 3090560,
    "space_used_size": 2493792,
    "space_available_size": 0,
    "physical_space_size": 3090560
  },
  {
    "space_name": "code_space",
    "space_size": 1260160,
    "space_used_size": 644256,
    "space_available_size": 960,
    "physical_space_size": 1260160
  },
  {
    "space_name": "map_space",
    "space_size": 1094160,
    "space_used_size": 201608,
    "space_available_size": 0,
    "physical_space_size": 1094160
  },
  {
    "space_name": "large_object_space",
    "space_size": 0,
    "space_used_size": 0,
    "space_available_size": 1490980608,
    "physical_space_size": 0
  }
]
```

## `v8.getHeapSnapshot()`
<!-- YAML
added: v11.13.0
-->

* Returns: {stream.Readable} A Readable Stream containing the V8 heap snapshot

Generates a snapshot of the current V8 heap and returns a Readable Stream that may be used to read the JSON serialized representation. This JSON stream format is intended to be used with tools such as Chrome DevTools. The JSON schema is undocumented and specific to the V8 engine, and may change from one version of V8 to the next.

```js
const stream = v8.getHeapSnapshot();
stream.pipe(process.stdout);
```

## `v8.getHeapStatistics()`
<!-- YAML
added: v1.0.0
changes:
  - version: v7.2.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/8610
    description: Added `malloced_memory`, `peak_malloced_memory`,
                 and `does_zap_garbage`.
  - version: v7.5.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10186
    description: Support values exceeding the 32-bit unsigned integer range.
-->

* Restituisce: {Object}

Restituisce un object con le seguenti proprietà:

* `total_heap_size` {number}
* `total_heap_size_executable` {number}
* `total_physical_size` {number}
* `total_available_size` {number}
* `used_heap_size` {number}
* `heap_size_limit` {number}
* `malloced_memory` {number}
* `peak_malloced_memory` {number}
* `does_zap_garbage` {number}
* `number_of_native_contexts` {number}
* `number_of_detached_contexts` {number}

`does_zap_garbage` is a 0/1 boolean, which signifies whether the `--zap_code_space` option is enabled or not. This makes V8 overwrite heap garbage with a bit pattern. The RSS footprint (resident memory set) gets bigger because it continuously touches all heap pages and that makes them less likely to get swapped out by the operating system.

`number_of_native_contexts` The value of native_context is the number of the top-level contexts currently active. Increase of this number over time indicates a memory leak.

`number_of_detached_contexts` The value of detached_context is the number of contexts that were detached and not yet garbage collected. This number being non-zero indicates a potential memory leak.
```js
{
  total_heap_size: 7326976,
  total_heap_size_executable: 4194304,
  total_physical_size: 7326976,
  total_available_size: 1152656,
  used_heap_size: 3476208,
  heap_size_limit: 1535115264,
  malloced_memory: 16384,
  peak_malloced_memory: 1127496,
  does_zap_garbage: 0,
  number_of_native_contexts: 1,
  number_of_detached_contexts: 0
}
```

## `v8.getHeapCodeStatistics()`<!-- YAML
added: v12.8.0
-->* Restituisce: {Object}

Restituisce un object con le seguenti proprietà:

* `code_and_metadata_size` {number}
* `bytecode_and_metadata_size` {number}
* `external_script_source_size` {number}
```js
{
  code_and_metadata_size: 212208,
  bytecode_and_metadata_size: 161368,
  external_script_source_size: 1410794
}
```

## `v8.setFlagsFromString(flags)`<!-- YAML
added: v1.0.0
-->* `flags` {string}

Il metodo `v8.setFlagsFromString()` può essere utilizzato per impostare a livello di programmazione i flag della riga di comando V8. Questo metodo dovrebbe essere usato con attenzione. Modificare le impostazioni dopo che la VM si è avviata potrebbe provocare comportamenti imprevedibili, compresi arresti anomali e perdita di dati; o potrebbe semplicemente non comportare nulla.

Le opzioni V8 disponibili per una versione di Node.js possono essere determinate eseguendo `node --v8-options`.

Utilizzo:

```js
// Stampa gli eventi di GC in stdout per un minuto.
const v8 = require('v8');
v8.setFlagsFromString('--trace_gc');
setTimeout(() => { v8.setFlagsFromString('--notrace_gc'); }, 60e3);
```

## `v8.writeHeapSnapshot([filename])`<!-- YAML
added: v11.13.0
-->* `filename` {string} The file path where the V8 heap snapshot is to be saved. If not specified, a file name with the pattern `'Heap-${yyyymmdd}-${hhmmss}-${pid}-${thread_id}.heapsnapshot'` will be generated, where `{pid}` will be the PID of the Node.js process, `{thread_id}` will be `0` when `writeHeapSnapshot()` is called from the main Node.js thread or the id of a worker thread.
* Returns: {string} The filename where the snapshot was saved.

Generates a snapshot of the current V8 heap and writes it to a JSON file. This file is intended to be used with tools such as Chrome DevTools. The JSON schema is undocumented and specific to the V8 engine, and may change from one version of V8 to the next.

A heap snapshot is specific to a single V8 isolate. When using [Worker Threads](worker_threads.html), a heap snapshot generated from the main thread will not contain any information about the workers, and vice versa.

```js
const { writeHeapSnapshot } = require('v8');
const {
  Worker,
  isMainThread,
  parentPort
} = require('worker_threads');

if (isMainThread) {
  const worker = new Worker(__filename);

  worker.once('message', (filename) => {
    console.log(`worker heapdump: ${filename}`);
    // Now get a heapdump for the main thread.
    console.log(`main thread heapdump: ${writeHeapSnapshot()}`);
  });

  // Tell the worker to create a heapdump.
  worker.postMessage('heapdump');
} else {
  parentPort.once('message', (message) => {
    if (message === 'heapdump') {
      // Generate a heapdump for the worker
      // and return the filename to the parent.
      parentPort.postMessage(writeHeapSnapshot());
    }
  });
}
```

## API di serializzazione

The serialization API provides means of serializing JavaScript values in a way that is compatible with the [HTML structured clone algorithm](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Structured_clone_algorithm).

Il formato è retrocompatibile (cioè sicuro da memorizzare su disco). Equal JavaScript values may result in different serialized output.

### `v8.serialize(value)`<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->* `value` {any}
* Restituisce: {Buffer}

Utilizza un [`DefaultSerializer`][] per serializzare `value` in un buffer.

### `v8.deserialize(buffer)`<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->* `buffer` {Buffer|TypedArray|DataView} Un buffer restituito da [`serialize()`][].

Uses a [`DefaultDeserializer`][] with default options to read a JS value from a buffer.

### Class: `v8.Serializer`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

#### `new Serializer()`
Crea un nuovo `Serializer` object.

#### `serializer.writeHeader()`

Scrive un'intestazione, che include la versione del formato di serializzazione.

#### `serializer.writeValue(value)`

* `value` {any}

Serializes a JavaScript value and adds the serialized representation to the internal buffer.

Ciò genera un errore se `value` non può essere serializzato.

#### `serializer.releaseBuffer()`

* Restituisce: {Buffer}

Restituisce il buffer interno memorizzato. This serializer should not be used once the buffer is released. Calling this method results in undefined behavior if a previous write has failed.

#### `serializer.transferArrayBuffer(id, arrayBuffer)`

* `id` {integer} Un numero intero a 32 bit senza segno.
* `arrayBuffer` {ArrayBuffer} Un'istanza `ArrayBuffer`.

Marks an `ArrayBuffer` as having its contents transferred out of band. Pass the corresponding `ArrayBuffer` in the deserializing context to [`deserializer.transferArrayBuffer()`][].

#### `serializer.writeUint32(value)`

* `value` {integer}

Scrive un numero raw intero senza segno a 32 bit. Da utilizzare all'interno di un [`serializer._writeHostObject()`][] personalizzato.

#### `serializer.writeUint64(hi, lo)`

* `hi` {integer}
* `lo` {integer}

Scrive un numero raw intero senza segno a 64 bit, divide in parti alte e basse a 32 bit. Da utilizzare all'interno di un [`serializer._writeHostObject()`][] personalizzato.

#### `serializer.writeDouble(value)`

* `value` {number}

Scrive un valore `number` JS. Da utilizzare all'interno di un [`serializer._writeHostObject()`][] personalizzato.

#### `serializer.writeRawBytes(buffer)`

* `buffer` {Buffer|TypedArray|DataView}

Scrive i raw byte nel buffer interno del serializzatore. The deserializer will require a way to compute the length of the buffer. Da utilizzare all'interno di un [`serializer._writeHostObject()`][] personalizzato.

#### `serializer._writeHostObject(object)`

* `object` {Object}

This method is called to write some kind of host object, i.e. an object created by native C++ bindings. If it is not possible to serialize `object`, a suitable exception should be thrown.

This method is not present on the `Serializer` class itself but can be provided by subclasses.

#### `serializer._getDataCloneError(message)`

* `message` {string}

This method is called to generate error objects that will be thrown when an object can not be cloned.

This method defaults to the [`Error`][] constructor and can be overridden on subclasses.

#### `serializer._getSharedArrayBufferId(sharedArrayBuffer)`

* `sharedArrayBuffer` {SharedArrayBuffer}

This method is called when the serializer is going to serialize a `SharedArrayBuffer` object. It must return an unsigned 32-bit integer ID for the object, using the same ID if this `SharedArrayBuffer` has already been serialized. When deserializing, this ID will be passed to [`deserializer.transferArrayBuffer()`][].

Se l'object non può essere serializzato, deve essere generata un'eccezione.

This method is not present on the `Serializer` class itself but can be provided by subclasses.

#### `serializer._setTreatArrayBufferViewsAsHostObjects(flag)`

* `flag` {boolean} **Default:** `false`

Indicate whether to treat `TypedArray` and `DataView` objects as host objects, i.e. pass them to [`serializer._writeHostObject()`][].

### Class: `v8.Deserializer`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

#### `new Deserializer(buffer)`

* `buffer` {Buffer|TypedArray|DataView} A buffer returned by [`serializer.releaseBuffer()`][].

Crea un nuovo `Deserializer` object.

#### `deserializer.readHeader()`

Legge e convalida un'intestazione (inclusa la versione del formato). Ad esempio, può rifiutare un formato wire non valido o non supportato. In that case, an `Error` is thrown.

#### `deserializer.readValue()`

Deserializza un valore JavaScript dal buffer e lo restituisce.

#### `deserializer.transferArrayBuffer(id, arrayBuffer)`

* `id` {integer} Un numero intero a 32 bit senza segno.
* `arrayBuffer` {ArrayBuffer|SharedArrayBuffer} Un'istanza `ArrayBuffer`.

Marks an `ArrayBuffer` as having its contents transferred out of band. Pass the corresponding `ArrayBuffer` in the serializing context to [`serializer.transferArrayBuffer()`][] (or return the `id` from [`serializer._getSharedArrayBufferId()`][] in the case of `SharedArrayBuffer`s).

#### `deserializer.getWireFormatVersion()`

* Restituisce: {integer}

Legge la versione del formato wire sottostante. Likely mostly to be useful to legacy code reading old wire format versions. May not be called before `.readHeader()`.

#### `deserializer.readUint32()`

* Restituisce: {integer}

Legge un numero raw intero senza segno a 32 bit e lo restituisce. Da utilizzare all'interno di un [`deserializer._readHostObject()`][] personalizzato.

#### `deserializer.readUint64()`

* Returns: {integer[]}

Read a raw 64-bit unsigned integer and return it as an array `[hi, lo]` with two 32-bit unsigned integer entries. Da utilizzare all'interno di un [`deserializer._readHostObject()`][] personalizzato.

#### `deserializer.readDouble()`

* Restituisce: {number}

Legge un valore `number` di JS. Da utilizzare all'interno di un [`deserializer._readHostObject()`][] personalizzato.

#### `deserializer.readRawBytes(length)`

* `length` {integer}
* Restituisce: {Buffer}

Legge i raw byte dal buffer interno del deserializzatore. The `length` parameter must correspond to the length of the buffer that was passed to [`serializer.writeRawBytes()`][]. Da utilizzare all'interno di un [`deserializer._readHostObject()`][] personalizzato.

#### `deserializer._readHostObject()`

This method is called to read some kind of host object, i.e. an object that is created by native C++ bindings. If it is not possible to deserialize the data, a suitable exception should be thrown.

This method is not present on the `Deserializer` class itself but can be provided by subclasses.

### Class: `v8.DefaultSerializer`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

A subclass of [`Serializer`][] that serializes `TypedArray` (in particular [`Buffer`][]) and `DataView` objects as host objects, and only stores the part of their underlying `ArrayBuffer`s that they are referring to.

### Class: `v8.DefaultDeserializer`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

A subclass of [`Deserializer`][] corresponding to the format written by [`DefaultSerializer`][].
