# Opzioni della Command Line

<!--introduced_in=v5.9.1-->
<!--type=misc-->

Node.js viene fornito con una varietà di opzioni CLI. Queste opzioni espongono il debugging (o debug) integrato, diversi modi per eseguire gli script e altre opzioni runtime utili.

Per visualizzare questa documentazione come la pagina di un manuale all'interno di un terminale, esegui `man node`.

## Sinossi

`node [options] [V8 options] [script.js | -e "script" | -] [--] [arguments]`

`node inspect [script.js | -e "script" | <host>:<port>] …`

`node --v8-options`

Esegui senza argomenti per avviare il [REPL](repl.html).

_For more info about `node inspect`, please see the [debugger](debugger.html) documentation._

## Opzioni
<!-- YAML
changes:
  - version: v10.12.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/23020
    description: Underscores instead of dashes are now allowed for
                 Node.js options as well, in addition to V8 options.
-->

All options, including V8 options, allow words to be separated by both dashes (`-`) or underscores (`_`).

For example, `--pending-deprecation` is equivalent to `--pending_deprecation`.

### `-`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

Alias for stdin. Analogous to the use of `-` in other command line utilities, meaning that the script will be read from stdin, and the rest of the options are passed to that script.

### `--`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.11.0
-->

Indica la fine delle opzioni node. Passa gli argomenti restanti allo script. Se prima di questa opzione non viene fornito nessuno script filename od un eval/print script, l'argomento successivo verrà utilizzato come script filename.

### `--abort-on-uncaught-exception`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.10
-->

Aborting instead of exiting causes a core file to be generated for post-mortem analysis using a debugger (such as `lldb`, `gdb`, and `mdb`).

If this flag is passed, the behavior can still be set to not abort through [`process.setUncaughtExceptionCaptureCallback()`][] (and through usage of the `domain` module that uses it).

### `--completion-bash`
<!-- YAML
added: v10.12.0
-->

Print source-able bash completion script for Node.js.

```console
$ node --completion-bash > node_bash_completion
$ source node_bash_completion
```

### `--cpu-prof`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.0.0
-->

> Stabilità: 1 - Sperimentale

Starts the V8 CPU profiler on start up, and writes the CPU profile to disk before exit.

If `--cpu-prof-dir` is not specified, the generated profile will be placed in the current working directory.

If `--cpu-prof-name` is not specified, the generated profile will be named `CPU.${yyyymmdd}.${hhmmss}.${pid}.${tid}.${seq}.cpuprofile`.

```console
$ node --cpu-prof index.js
$ ls *.cpuprofile
CPU.20190409.202950.15293.0.0.cpuprofile
```

### `--cpu-prof-dir`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.0.0
-->

> Stabilità: 1 - Sperimentale

Specify the directory where the CPU profiles generated by `--cpu-prof` will be placed.

### `--cpu-prof-interval`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.2.0
-->

> Stabilità: 1 - Sperimentale

Specify the sampling interval in microseconds for the CPU profiles generated by `--cpu-prof`. The default is 1000 microseconds.

### `--cpu-prof-name`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.0.0
-->

> Stabilità: 1 - Sperimentale

Specify the file name of the CPU profile generated by `--cpu-prof`.

### `--disallow-code-generation-from-strings`
<!-- YAML
added: v9.8.0
-->

Make built-in language features like `eval` and `new Function` that generate code from strings throw an exception instead. This does not affect the Node.js `vm` module.

### `--enable-fips`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.0.0
-->

Abilita la crittografia conforme al FIPS all'avvio. (Requires Node.js to be built with `./configure --openssl-fips`.)

### `--enable-source-maps`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.12.0
-->

> Stabilità: 1 - Sperimentale

Enable experimental Source Map V3 support for stack traces.

Currently, overriding `Error.prepareStackTrace` is ignored when the `--enable-source-maps` flag is set.

### `--experimental-json-modules`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.9.0
-->

Enable experimental JSON support for the ES Module loader.

### `--experimental-modules`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

Abilita i moduli di supporto e di caching del modulo ES sperimentale.

### `--experimental-policy`
<!-- YAML
added: v11.8.0
-->

Use the specified file as a security policy.

### `--experimental-repl-await`
<!-- YAML
added: v10.0.0
-->

Abilita il supporto della parola chiave sperimentale top-level `await` all'interno del REPL.

### `--experimental-report`
<!-- YAML
added: v11.8.0
-->

Enable experimental diagnostic report feature.

### `--experimental-specifier-resolution=mode`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.16.0
-->

Sets the resolution algorithm for resolving ES module specifiers. Valid options are `explicit` and `node`.

The default is `explicit`, which requires providing the full path to a module. The `node` mode will enable support for optional file extensions and the ability to import a directory that has an index file.

Please see [customizing ESM specifier resolution](esm.html#esm_customizing_esm_specifier_resolution_algorithm) for example usage.

### `--experimental-vm-modules`
<!-- YAML
added: v9.6.0
-->

Abilita il supporto del modulo ES sperimentale nel modulo `vm`.

### `--experimental-wasi-unstable-preview1`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.16.0
-->

Enable experimental WebAssembly System Interface (WASI) support.

### `--experimental-wasm-modules`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.3.0
-->

Enable experimental WebAssembly module support.

### `--force-fips`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.0.0
-->

Forza la crittografia conforme al FIPS all'avvio. (Cannot be disabled from script code.) (Same requirements as `--enable-fips`.)

### `--frozen-intrinsics`
<!-- YAML
added: v11.12.0
-->

> Stabilità: 1 - Sperimentale

Enable experimental frozen intrinsics like `Array` and `Object`.

Support is currently only provided for the root context and no guarantees are currently provided that `global.Array` is indeed the default intrinsic reference. Code may break under this flag.

`--require` runs prior to freezing intrinsics in order to allow polyfills to be added.

### `--heapsnapshot-signal=signal`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.0.0
-->

Enables a signal handler that causes the Node.js process to write a heap dump when the specified signal is received. `signal` must be a valid signal name. Disabled by default.

```console
$ node --heapsnapshot-signal=SIGUSR2 index.js &
$ ps aux
USER       PID %CPU %MEM    VSZ   RSS TTY      STAT START   TIME COMMAND
node         1  5.5  6.1 787252 247004 ?       Ssl  16:43   0:02 node --heapsnapshot-signal=SIGUSR2 index.js
$ kill -USR2 1
$ ls
Heap.20190718.133405.15554.0.001.heapsnapshot
```

### `--heap-prof`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.4.0
-->

> Stabilità: 1 - Sperimentale

Starts the V8 heap profiler on start up, and writes the heap profile to disk before exit.

If `--heap-prof-dir` is not specified, the generated profile will be placed in the current working directory.

If `--heap-prof-name` is not specified, the generated profile will be named `Heap.${yyyymmdd}.${hhmmss}.${pid}.${tid}.${seq}.heapprofile`.

```console
$ node --heap-prof index.js
$ ls *.heapprofile
Heap.20190409.202950.15293.0.001.heapprofile
```

### `--heap-prof-dir`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.4.0
-->

> Stabilità: 1 - Sperimentale

Specify the directory where the heap profiles generated by `--heap-prof` will be placed.

### `--heap-prof-interval`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.4.0
-->

> Stabilità: 1 - Sperimentale

Specify the average sampling interval in bytes for the heap profiles generated by `--heap-prof`. The default is 512 * 1024 bytes.

### `--heap-prof-name`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.4.0
-->

> Stabilità: 1 - Sperimentale

Specify the file name of the heap profile generated by `--heap-prof`.

### `--http-parser=library`
<!-- YAML
added: v11.4.0
-->

Chooses an HTTP parser library. Available values are:

* `llhttp` for https://llhttp.org/
* `legacy` for https://github.com/nodejs/http-parser

The default is `llhttp`, unless otherwise specified when building Node.js.

This flag exists to aid in experimentation with the internal implementation of the Node.js http parser. This flag is likely to become a no-op and removed at some point in the future.

### `--http-server-default-timeout=milliseconds`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.4.0
-->

Overrides the default value of `http`, `https` and `http2` server socket timeout. Setting the value to 0 disables server socket timeout. Unless provided, http server sockets timeout after 120s (2 minutes). Programmatic setting of the timeout takes precedence over the value set through this flag.

### `--icu-data-dir=file`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.11.15
-->

Specifica il percorso di caricamento dei dati ICU. (`NODE_ICU_DATA` viene sottoposto all'override.)

### `--input-type=type`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.0.0
-->

Used with `--experimental-modules`, this configures Node.js to interpret string input as CommonJS or as an ES module. String input is input via `--eval`, `--print`, or `STDIN`.

Valid values are `"commonjs"` and `"module"`. The default is `"commonjs"`.

### `--inspect-brk[=[host:]port]`
<!-- YAML
added: v7.6.0
-->

Attiva l'inspector su `host:port` e si interrompe all'inizio dello user script. `host:port` predefinito è `127.0.0.1:9229`.

### `--inspect-port=[host:]port`
<!-- YAML
added: v7.6.0
-->

Imposta l'`host:port` da utilizzare quando viene attivato l'inspector. Utile all'attivazione dell'inspector inviando il segnale `SIGUSR1`.

L'host predefinito è `127.0.0.1`.

See the [security warning](#inspector_security) below regarding the `host` parameter usage.

### `--inspect[=[host:]port]`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.3.0
-->

Attiva l'inspector su `host:port`. L'impostazione predefinita è `127.0.0.1:9229`.

V8 inspector integration allows tools such as Chrome DevTools and IDEs to debug and profile Node.js instances. The tools attach to Node.js instances via a tcp port and communicate using the [Chrome DevTools Protocol](https://chromedevtools.github.io/devtools-protocol/).

<a id="inspector_security"></a>

#### Warning: binding inspector to a public IP:port combination is insecure

Binding the inspector to a public IP (including `0.0.0.0`) with an open port is insecure, as it allows external hosts to connect to the inspector and perform a [remote code execution](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Code_Injection) attack.

If specifying a host, make sure that either:

* The host is not accessible from public networks.
* A firewall disallows unwanted connections on the port.

**More specifically, `--inspect=0.0.0.0` is insecure if the port (`9229` by default) is not firewall-protected.**

See the [debugging security implications](https://nodejs.org/en/docs/guides/debugging-getting-started/#security-implications) section for more information.

### `--inspect-publish-uid=stderr,http`

Specify ways of the inspector web socket url exposure.

By default inspector websocket url is available in stderr and under `/json/list` endpoint on `http://host:port/json/list`.

### `--experimental-loader=module`
<!-- YAML
added: v9.0.0
-->

Specify the `module` of a custom [experimental ECMAScript Module loader](esm.html#esm_experimental_loaders). `module` may be either a path to a file, or an ECMAScript Module name.

### `--insecure-http-parser`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.15.0
-->

Use an insecure HTTP parser that accepts invalid HTTP headers. This may allow interoperability with non-conformant HTTP implementations. It may also allow request smuggling and other HTTP attacks that rely on invalid headers being accepted. Avoid using this option.

### `--max-http-header-size=size`
<!-- YAML
added: v11.6.0
-->

Specify the maximum size, in bytes, of HTTP headers. Defaults to 8KB.

### `--napi-modules`
<!-- YAML
added: v7.10.0
-->

This option is a no-op. It is kept for compatibility.

### `--no-deprecation`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.8.0
-->

Silenzia gli avvisi di deprecazione.

### `--no-force-async-hooks-checks`
<!-- YAML
added: v9.0.0
-->

Disables runtime checks for `async_hooks`. These will still be enabled dynamically when `async_hooks` is enabled.

### `--no-warnings`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.0.0
-->

Silenzia tutti gli avvisi di processo (incluse le deprecazioni).

### `--force-context-aware`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.12.0
-->

Disable loading native addons that are not [context-aware](addons.html#addons_context_aware_addons).

### `--openssl-config=file`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.9.0
-->

Carica un file con configurazione OpenSSL all'avvio. Tra gli altri usi, può essere utilizzato per abilitare la crittografia conforme al FIPS se Node.js è compilato con `./configure --openssl-fips`.

### `--pending-deprecation`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

Emette gli avvisi di deprecazione in attesa.

Pending deprecations are generally identical to a runtime deprecation with the notable exception that they are turned *off* by default and will not be emitted unless either the `--pending-deprecation` command line flag, or the `NODE_PENDING_DEPRECATION=1` environment variable, is set. Pending deprecations are used to provide a kind of selective "early warning" mechanism that developers may leverage to detect deprecated API usage.

### `--policy-integrity=sri`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.7.0
-->

> Stabilità: 1 - Sperimentale

Instructs Node.js to error prior to running any code if the policy does not have the specified integrity. It expects a [Subresource Integrity](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Subresource_Integrity) string as a parameter.

### `--preserve-symlinks`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.3.0
-->

Dà istruzioni al module loader di conservare i collegamenti simbolici (symlink) durante la risoluzione ed il caching dei moduli.

Di default, quando Node.js carica un modulo da un percorso che è collegato simbolicamente ad una diversa posizione sul disco, cancellerà il collegamento e utilizzerà l'effettivo "percorso reale" del modulo sul disco sia come identifier che come percorso root per individuare altri moduli delle dipendenze. Nella maggior parte dei casi, questo comportamento predefinito è accettabile. Tuttavia, quando si utilizzano dipendenze peer collegate simbolicamente, come illustrato nell'esempio seguente, il comportamento predefinito causa l'avvio di un'exception se `moduleA` tenta di richiedere `moduleB` come una dipendenza peer:

```text
{appDir}
 ├── app
 │   ├── index.js
 │   └── node_modules
 │       ├── moduleA -> {appDir}/moduleA
 │       └── moduleB
 │           ├── index.js
 │           └── package.json
 └── moduleA
     ├── index.js
     └── package.json
```

Il flag `--preserve-symlinks` della command line indica a Node.js di utilizzare per i moduli, al posto del percorso reale (real path), il percorso del collegamento simbolico (symlink path), permettendo di trovare le dipendenze peer collegate simbolicamente.

Da notare, tuttavia, che l'utilizzo di `--preserve-symlinks` può avere altri effetti collaterali. Specifically, symbolically linked *native* modules can fail to load if those are linked from more than one location in the dependency tree (Node.js would see those as two separate modules and would attempt to load the module multiple times, causing an exception to be thrown).

The `--preserve-symlinks` flag does not apply to the main module, which allows `node --preserve-symlinks node_module/.bin/<foo>` to work. To apply the same behavior for the main module, also use `--preserve-symlinks-main`.

### `--preserve-symlinks-main`
<!-- YAML
added: v10.2.0
-->

Instructs the module loader to preserve symbolic links when resolving and caching the main module (`require.main`).

This flag exists so that the main module can be opted-in to the same behavior that `--preserve-symlinks` gives to all other imports; they are separate flags, however, for backward compatibility with older Node.js versions.

`--preserve-symlinks-main` does not imply `--preserve-symlinks`; it is expected that `--preserve-symlinks-main` will be used in addition to `--preserve-symlinks` when it is not desirable to follow symlinks before resolving relative paths.

See `--preserve-symlinks` for more information.

### `--prof`
<!-- YAML
added: v2.0.0
-->

Generate V8 profiler output.

### `--prof-process`
<!-- YAML
added: v5.2.0
-->

Elaborazione dell'output del profiler di V8 generato utilizzando l'opzione `--prof` di V8.

### `--redirect-warnings=file`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

Scrive gli avvisi di processo sul file specificato invece di stamparli sullo stderr. Se il file non esiste verrà creato, invece se esiste verrà aggiunto. Se si verifica un errore durante il tentativo di scrittura dell'avviso sul file, questo verrà scritto sullo stderr.

### `--report-directory=directory`
<!-- YAML
added: v11.8.0
changes:
  - version: v12.0.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/27312
    description: Changed from `--diagnostic-report-directory` to
                 `--report-directory`
-->

Location at which the report will be generated.

### `--report-filename=filename`
<!-- YAML
added: v11.8.0
changes:
  - version: v12.0.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/27312
    description: changed from `--diagnostic-report-filename` to
                 `--report-filename`
-->

Name of the file to which the report will be written.

### `--report-on-fatalerror`
<!-- YAML
added: v11.8.0
changes:
  - version: v12.0.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/27312
    description: changed from `--diagnostic-report-on-fatalerror` to
                 `--report-on-fatalerror`
-->

Enables the report to be triggered on fatal errors (internal errors within the Node.js runtime such as out of memory) that lead to termination of the application, if `--experimental-report` is enabled. Useful to inspect various diagnostic data elements such as heap, stack, event loop state, resource consumption etc. to reason about the fatal error.

### `--report-on-signal`
<!-- YAML
added: v11.8.0
changes:
  - version: v12.0.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/27312
    description: changed from `--diagnostic-report-on-signal` to
                 `--report-on-signal`
-->

Enables report to be generated upon receiving the specified (or predefined) signal to the running Node.js process, if `--experimental-report` is enabled. The signal to trigger the report is specified through `--report-signal`.

### `--report-signal=signal`
<!-- YAML
added: v11.8.0
changes:
  - version: v12.0.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/27312
    description: changed from `--diagnostic-report-signal` to
                 `--report-signal`
-->

Sets or resets the signal for report generation (not supported on Windows). Default signal is `SIGUSR2`.

### `--report-uncaught-exception`
<!-- YAML
added: v11.8.0
changes:
  - version: v12.0.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/27312
    description: changed from `--diagnostic-report-uncaught-exception` to
                 `--report-uncaught-exception`
-->

Enables report to be generated on un-caught exceptions, if `--experimental-report` is enabled. Useful when inspecting JavaScript stack in conjunction with native stack and other runtime environment data.

### `--throw-deprecation`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.11.14
-->

Genera gli errori per le deprecazioni.

### `--title=title`
<!-- YAML
added: v10.7.0
-->

Set `process.title` on startup.

### `--tls-cipher-list=list`
<!-- YAML
added: v4.0.0
-->

Specifica un elenco crittografico TLS predefinito alternativo. Requires Node.js to be built with crypto support (default).

### `--tls-keylog=file`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.16.0
-->

Log TLS key material to a file. The key material is in NSS `SSLKEYLOGFILE` format and can be used by software (such as Wireshark) to decrypt the TLS traffic.

### `--tls-max-v1.2`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.0.0
-->

Set [`tls.DEFAULT_MAX_VERSION`][] to 'TLSv1.2'. Use to disable support for TLSv1.3.

### `--tls-max-v1.3`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.0.0
-->

Set default [`tls.DEFAULT_MAX_VERSION`][] to 'TLSv1.3'. Use to enable support for TLSv1.3.

### `--tls-min-v1.0`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.0.0
-->

Set default [`tls.DEFAULT_MIN_VERSION`][] to 'TLSv1'. Use for compatibility with old TLS clients or servers.

### `--tls-min-v1.1`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.0.0
-->

Set default [`tls.DEFAULT_MIN_VERSION`][] to 'TLSv1.1'. Use for compatibility with old TLS clients or servers.

### `--tls-min-v1.2`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.2.0
-->

Set default [`tls.DEFAULT_MIN_VERSION`][] to 'TLSv1.2'. This is the default for 12.x and later, but the option is supported for compatibility with older Node.js versions.

### `--tls-min-v1.3`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.0.0
-->

Set default [`tls.DEFAULT_MIN_VERSION`][] to 'TLSv1.3'. Use to disable support for TLSv1.2, which is not as secure as TLSv1.3.

### `--trace-deprecation`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.8.0
-->

Stampa le stack trace per le deprecazioni.

### `--trace-event-categories`
<!-- YAML
added: v7.7.0
-->

A comma separated list of categories that should be traced when trace event tracing is enabled using `--trace-events-enabled`.

### `--trace-event-file-pattern`
<!-- YAML
added: v9.8.0
-->

Template string specifying the filepath for the trace event data, it supports `${rotation}` and `${pid}`.

### `--trace-events-enabled`
<!-- YAML
added: v7.7.0
-->

Abilita la raccolta delle informazioni di tracciamento del trace event.

### `--trace-exit`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.16.0
-->

Prints a stack trace whenever an environment is exited proactively, i.e. invoking `process.exit()`.

### `--trace-sync-io`
<!-- YAML
added: v2.1.0
-->

Stampa una stack trace ogni volta che viene rilevato un I/O sincrono dopo il primo turno dell'event loop.

### `--trace-tls`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.2.0
-->

Prints TLS packet trace information to `stderr`. This can be used to debug TLS connection problems.

### `--trace-uncaught`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.16.0
-->

Print stack traces for uncaught exceptions; usually, the stack trace associated with the creation of an `Error` is printed, whereas this makes Node.js also print the stack trace associated with throwing the value (which does not need to be an `Error` instance).

Enabling this option may affect garbage collection behavior negatively.

### `--trace-warnings`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.0.0
-->

Stampa le stack trace per gli avvisi di processo (incluse le deprecazioni).

### `--track-heap-objects`
<!-- YAML
added: v2.4.0
-->

Traccia le allocazioni degli heap object per gli heap snapshot.

### `--unhandled-rejections=mode`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.0.0
-->

By default all unhandled rejections trigger a warning plus a deprecation warning for the very first unhandled rejection in case no [`unhandledRejection`][] hook is used.

Using this flag allows to change what should happen when an unhandled rejection occurs. One of three modes can be chosen:

* `strict`: Raise the unhandled rejection as an uncaught exception.
* `warn`: Always trigger a warning, no matter if the [`unhandledRejection`][] hook is set or not but do not print the deprecation warning.
* `none`: Silence all warnings.

### `--use-bundled-ca`, `--use-openssl-ca`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.11.0
-->

Use bundled Mozilla CA store as supplied by current Node.js version or use OpenSSL's default CA store. The default store is selectable at build-time.

Il CA store in bundle, fornito da Node.js, è uno snapshot del Mozilla CA store che viene corretto al momento del rilascio. È identico su tutte le piattaforme supportate.

L'utilizzo dell'OpenSSL store consente modifiche esterne dello store stesso. Per la maggior parte delle distribuzioni Linux e BSD, questo store è gestito dai responsabili della distribuzione e dagli amministratori del sistema. La posizione dell'OpenSSL CA store dipende dalla configurazione della libreria OpenSSL, ma può essere modificata in fase di esecuzione utilizzando le variabili di ambiente.

Vedi `SSL_CERT_DIR` e `SSL_CERT_FILE`.

### `--v8-options`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.1.3
-->

Stampa le opzioni della command line di V8.

### `--v8-pool-size=num`
<!-- YAML
added: v5.10.0
-->

Set V8's thread pool size which will be used to allocate background jobs.

If set to `0` then V8 will choose an appropriate size of the thread pool based on the number of online processors.

If the value provided is larger than V8's maximum, then the largest value will be chosen.

### `--zero-fill-buffers`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.0.0
-->

Automatically zero-fills all newly allocated [`Buffer`][] and [`SlowBuffer`][] instances.

### `-c`, `--check`
<!-- YAML
added:
  - v5.0.0
  - v4.2.0
changes:
  - version: v10.0.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/19600
    description: The `--require` option is now supported when checking a file.
-->

La sintassi controlla lo script senza eseguirlo.

### `-e`, `--eval "script"`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.5.2
changes:
  - version: v5.11.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/5348
    description: Built-in libraries are now available as predefined variables.
-->

Valuta il seguente argomento come JavaScript. I moduli che sono predefiniti nel REPL possono essere utilizzati anche in `script`.

On Windows, using `cmd.exe` a single quote will not work correctly because it only recognizes double `"` for quoting. In Powershell or Git bash, both `'` and `"` are usable.

### `-h`, `--help`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.1.3
-->

Stampa le opzioni della command line del node. L'output di questa opzione è meno dettagliato di questo documento.

### `-i`, `--interactive`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.7.7
-->

Apre il REPL anche se stdin non sembra essere un terminale.

### `-p`, `--print "script"`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.6.4
changes:
  - version: v5.11.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/5348
    description: Built-in libraries are now available as predefined variables.
-->

Identico a `-e` ma stampa il risultato.

### `-r`, `--require module`
<!-- YAML
added: v1.6.0
-->

Pre-carica il modulo specificato all'avvio.

Seguono le regole di risoluzione del modulo di `require()`. `module` potrebbe essere il percorso per un file oppure il nome un node module.

### `-v`, `--version`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.1.3
-->

Stampa la versione del node.

## Variabili di Ambiente

### `NODE_DEBUG=module[,…]`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.1.32
-->

Elenco, separato da `','`, dei core module che dovrebbero stampare le informazioni di debug.

### `NODE_DEBUG_NATIVE=module[,…]`

`','`-separated list of core C++ modules that should print debug information.

### `NODE_DISABLE_COLORS=1`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.3.0
-->

When set, colors will not be used in the REPL.

### `NODE_EXTRA_CA_CERTS=file`
<!-- YAML
added: v7.3.0
-->

Quando è impostato, i ben noti "root" CA (come VeriSign) verranno estesi con i certificati aggiuntivi all'interno di `file`. Il file deve essere composto da uno o più certificati attendibili in formato PEM. A message will be emitted (once) with [`process.emitWarning()`](process.html#process_process_emitwarning_warning_type_code_ctor) if the file is missing or malformed, but any errors are otherwise ignored.

Neither the well known nor extra certificates are used when the `ca` options property is explicitly specified for a TLS or HTTPS client or server.

This environment variable is ignored when `node` runs as setuid root or has Linux file capabilities set.

### `NODE_ICU_DATA=file`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.11.15
-->

Data path for ICU (`Intl` object) data. Estenderà i dati collegati quando saranno compilati con il supporto small-icu.

### `NODE_NO_WARNINGS=1`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.11.0
-->

Se impostato su `1`, gli avvisi di processo vengono silenziati.

### `NODE_OPTIONS=options...`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

Un elenco, separato da spazi, delle opzioni della command line. `options...` are interpreted before command line options, so command line options will override or compound after anything in `options...`. Node.js will exit with an error if an option that is not allowed in the environment is used, such as `-p` or a script file.

In case an option value happens to contain a space (for example a path listed in `--require`), it must be escaped using double quotes. Per esempio:

```bash
NODE_OPTIONS='--require "./my path/file.js"'
```

A singleton flag passed as a command line option will override the same flag passed into `NODE_OPTIONS`:

```bash
# The inspector will be available on port 5555
NODE_OPTIONS='--inspect=localhost:4444' node --inspect=localhost:5555
```

A flag that can be passed multiple times will be treated as if its `NODE_OPTIONS` instances were passed first, and then its command line instances afterwards:

```bash
NODE_OPTIONS='--require "./a.js"' node --require "./b.js"
# is equivalent to:
node --require "./a.js" --require "./b.js"
```

Node.js options that are allowed are:
<!-- node-options-node start -->
* `--enable-fips`
* `--enable-source-maps`
* `--experimental-json-modules`
* `--experimental-loader`
* `--experimental-modules`
* `--experimental-policy`
* `--experimental-repl-await`
* `--experimental-report`
* `--experimental-specifier-resolution`
* `--experimental-vm-modules`
* `--experimental-wasi-unstable-preview1`
* `--experimental-wasm-modules`
* `--force-context-aware`
* `--force-fips`
* `--frozen-intrinsics`
* `--heapsnapshot-signal`
* `--http-parser`
* `--http-server-default-timeout`
* `--icu-data-dir`
* `--input-type`
* `--insecure-http-parser`
* `--inspect-brk`
* `--inspect-port`, `--debug-port`
* `--inspect-publish-uid`
* `--inspect`
* `--max-http-header-size`
* `--napi-modules`
* `--no-deprecation`
* `--no-force-async-hooks-checks`
* `--no-warnings`
* `--openssl-config`
* `--pending-deprecation`
* `--policy-integrity`
* `--preserve-symlinks-main`
* `--preserve-symlinks`
* `--prof-process`
* `--redirect-warnings`
* `--report-directory`
* `--report-filename`
* `--report-on-fatalerror`
* `--report-on-signal`
* `--report-signal`
* `--report-uncaught-exception`
* `--require`, `-r`
* `--throw-deprecation`
* `--title`
* `--tls-cipher-list`
* `--tls-keylog`
* `--tls-max-v1.2`
* `--tls-max-v1.3`
* `--tls-min-v1.0`
* `--tls-min-v1.1`
* `--tls-min-v1.2`
* `--tls-min-v1.3`
* `--trace-deprecation`
* `--trace-event-categories`
* `--trace-event-file-pattern`
* `--trace-events-enabled`
* `--trace-exit`
* `--trace-sync-io`
* `--trace-tls`
* `--trace-uncaught`
* `--trace-warnings`
* `--track-heap-objects`
* `--unhandled-rejections`
* `--use-bundled-ca`
* `--use-openssl-ca`
* `--v8-pool-size`
* `--zero-fill-buffers`
<!-- node-options-node end -->

V8 options that are allowed are:
<!-- node-options-v8 start -->
* `--abort-on-uncaught-exception`
* `--disallow-code-generation-from-strings`
* `--interpreted-frames-native-stack`
* `--max-old-space-size`
* `--perf-basic-prof-only-functions`
* `--perf-basic-prof`
* `--perf-prof-unwinding-info`
* `--perf-prof`
* `--stack-trace-limit`
<!-- node-options-v8 end -->

### `NODE_PATH=path[:…]`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.1.32
-->

Elenco, separato da `':'`, di directory precedute dal percorso di ricerca del modulo.

On Windows, this is a `';'`-separated list instead.

### `NODE_PENDING_DEPRECATION=1`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

Se impostato su `1`, emette gli avvisi di deprecazione in attesa.

Pending deprecations are generally identical to a runtime deprecation with the notable exception that they are turned *off* by default and will not be emitted unless either the `--pending-deprecation` command line flag, or the `NODE_PENDING_DEPRECATION=1` environment variable, is set. Pending deprecations are used to provide a kind of selective "early warning" mechanism that developers may leverage to detect deprecated API usage.

### `NODE_PENDING_PIPE_INSTANCES=instances`

Set the number of pending pipe instance handles when the pipe server is waiting for connections. This setting applies to Windows only.

### `NODE_PRESERVE_SYMLINKS=1`
<!-- YAML
added: v7.1.0
-->

When set to `1`, instructs the module loader to preserve symbolic links when resolving and caching modules.

### `NODE_REDIRECT_WARNINGS=file`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

Se impostato, gli avvisi di processo verranno emessi sul file specificato invece di essere stampati sullo stderr. Se il file non esiste verrà creato, invece se esiste verrà aggiunto. Se si verifica un errore durante il tentativo di scrittura dell'avviso sul file, questo verrà scritto sullo stderr. È equivalente all'utilizzo del flag `--redirect-warnings=file` della command line.

### `NODE_REPL_HISTORY=file`
<!-- YAML
added: v3.0.0
-->

Percorso del file utilizzato per memorizzare la cronologia REPL persistente. Il percorso predefinito è `~/.node_repl_history`, che viene sovrascritto da questa variabile. L'impostazione del valore su una stringa vuota (`''` oppure `' '`) disabilita la cronologia REPL persistente.

### `NODE_REPL_EXTERNAL_MODULE=file`
<!-- YAML
added: v12.16.0
-->

Path to a Node.js module which will be loaded in place of the built-in REPL. Overriding this value to an empty string (`''`) will use the built-in REPL.

### `NODE_TLS_REJECT_UNAUTHORIZED=value`

If `value` equals `'0'`, certificate validation is disabled for TLS connections. This makes TLS, and HTTPS by extension, insecure. The use of this environment variable is strongly discouraged.

### `NODE_V8_COVERAGE=dir`

When set, Node.js will begin outputting [V8 JavaScript code coverage](https://v8project.blogspot.com/2017/12/javascript-code-coverage.html) and [Source Map](https://sourcemaps.info/spec.html) data to the directory provided as an argument (coverage information is written as JSON to files with a `coverage` prefix).

`NODE_V8_COVERAGE` will automatically propagate to subprocesses, making it easier to instrument applications that call the `child_process.spawn()` family of functions. `NODE_V8_COVERAGE` can be set to an empty string, to prevent propagation.

#### Coverage Output

Coverage is output as an array of [ScriptCoverage](https://chromedevtools.github.io/devtools-protocol/tot/Profiler#type-ScriptCoverage) objects on the top-level key `result`:

```json
{
  "result": [
    {
      "scriptId": "67",
      "url": "internal/tty.js",
      "functions": []
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Source Map Cache

> Stabilità: 1 - Sperimentale

If found, Source Map data is appended to the top-level key `source-map-cache` on the JSON coverage object.

`source-map-cache` is an object with keys representing the files source maps were extracted from, and values which include the raw source-map URL (in the key `url`), the parsed Source Map V3 information (in the key `data`), and the line lengths of the source file (in the key `lineLengths`).

```json
{
  "result": [
    {
      "scriptId": "68",
      "url": "file:///absolute/path/to/source.js",
      "functions": []
    }
  ],
  "source-map-cache": {
    "file:///absolute/path/to/source.js": {
      "url": "./path-to-map.json",
      "data": {
        "version": 3,
        "sources": [
          "file:///absolute/path/to/original.js"
        ],
        "names": [
          "Foo",
          "console",
          "info"
        ],
        "mappings": "MAAMA,IACJC,YAAaC",
        "sourceRoot": "./"
      },
      "lineLengths": [
        13,
        62,
        38,
        27
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

### `OPENSSL_CONF=file`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.11.0
-->

Carica un file con configurazione OpenSSL all'avvio. Tra gli altri usi, può essere utilizzato per abilitare la crittografia conforme al FIPS se Node.js è compilato con `./configure
--openssl-fips`.

Se viene utilizzata l'opzione [`--openssl-config`][] della command line, la variabile di ambiente viene ignorata.

### `SSL_CERT_DIR=dir`
<!-- YAML
added: v7.7.0
-->

Se viene abilitato `--use-openssl-ca`, questo sovrascrive e imposta la directory di OpenSSL contenente i certificati attendibili.

Be aware that unless the child environment is explicitly set, this environment variable will be inherited by any child processes, and if they use OpenSSL, it may cause them to trust the same CAs as node.

### `SSL_CERT_FILE=file`
<!-- YAML
added: v7.7.0
-->

Se viene abilitato `--use-openssl-ca`, questo sovrascrive e imposta il file di OpenSSL contenente certificati attendibili.

Be aware that unless the child environment is explicitly set, this environment variable will be inherited by any child processes, and if they use OpenSSL, it may cause them to trust the same CAs as node.

### `UV_THREADPOOL_SIZE=size`

Imposta il numero di thread utilizzati nel threadpool di libuv per impostare il `size` dei thread.

Asynchronous system APIs are used by Node.js whenever possible, but where they do not exist, libuv's threadpool is used to create asynchronous node APIs based on synchronous system APIs. Le API di Node.js che utilizzano il threadpool sono:

* all `fs` APIs, other than the file watcher APIs and those that are explicitly synchronous
* asynchronous crypto APIs such as `crypto.pbkdf2()`, `crypto.scrypt()`, `crypto.randomBytes()`, `crypto.randomFill()`, `crypto.generateKeyPair()`
* `dns.lookup()`
* tutte le API `zlib`, diverse dalle API che sono esplicitamente sincrone

Because libuv's threadpool has a fixed size, it means that if for whatever reason any of these APIs takes a long time, other (seemingly unrelated) APIs that run in libuv's threadpool will experience degraded performance. In order to mitigate this issue, one potential solution is to increase the size of libuv's threadpool by setting the `'UV_THREADPOOL_SIZE'` environment variable to a value greater than `4` (its current default value). For more information, see the [libuv threadpool documentation](http://docs.libuv.org/en/latest/threadpool.html).
