# Pull Requests

There are two fundamental components of the Pull Request process: one concrete and technical, and one more process oriented. The concrete and technical component involves the specific details of setting up your local environment so that you can make the actual changes. Aquí es donde comenzaremos.

* [Dependencias](#dependencies)
* [Configurando su entorno local](#setting-up-your-local-environment) 
  * [Paso 1: Bifurcación](#step-1-fork)
  * [Paso 2: Branch](#step-2-branch)
* [El proceso de hacer cambios](#the-process-of-making-changes) 
  * [Paso 3: Código](#step-3-code)
  * [Paso 4: Commit](#step-4-commit) 
    * [Pautas del mensaje Commit](#commit-message-guidelines)
  * [Paso 5: Rebase](#step-5-rebase)
  * [Paso 6: Prueba](#step-6-test) 
    * [Cobertura de prueba](#test-coverage)
  * [Paso 7: Push](#step-7-push)
  * [Paso 8: Apertura de la Pull Request](#step-8-opening-the-pull-request)
  * [Paso 9: Discutir y actualizar](#step-9-discuss-and-update) 
    * [Flujo de trabajo de aprobación y cambios de solicitud](#approval-and-request-changes-workflow)
  * [Paso 10: Ejecutar](#step-10-landing)
* [Revisión de Pull Requests](#reviewing-pull-requests) 
  * [Revise un poco a la vez](#review-a-bit-at-a-time)
  * [Tenga en cuenta a la persona detrás del código](#be-aware-of-the-person-behind-the-code)
  * [Respete el tiempo de espera mínimo para los comentarios](#respect-the-minimum-wait-time-for-comments)
  * [Pull Requests abandonadas o paralizadas](#abandoned-or-stalled-pull-requests)
  * [Aprobar un cambio](#approving-a-change)
  * [Acepte que hay opiniones diferentes sobre lo que pertenece a Node.js](#accept-that-there-are-different-opinions-about-what-belongs-in-nodejs)
  * [El rendimiento no es todo](#performance-is-not-everything)
  * [Pruebas de integración continua](#continuous-integration-testing)
* [Notas](#notes) 
  * [Commit Squashing](#commit-squashing)
  * [Obtener aprobaciones para su Pull Request](#getting-approvals-for-your-pull-request)
  * [Prueba de CI](#ci-testing)
  * [Esperar hasta que se aterrice la Pull Request](#waiting-until-the-pull-request-gets-landed)
  * [Consulte la Guía del Colaborador](#check-out-the-collaborator-guide)

## Dependencias

Node.js has several bundled dependencies in the *deps/* and the *tools/* directories that are not part of the project proper. Changes to files in those directories should be sent to their respective projects. Do not send a patch to Node.js. No podemos aceptar dichos parches.

In case of doubt, open an issue in the [issue tracker](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/) or contact one of the [project Collaborators](https://github.com/nodejs/node/#current-project-team-members). Node.js has two IRC channels: [#Node.js](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=node.js) for general help and questions, and [#Node-dev](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=node-dev) for development of Node.js core specifically.

## Configurando su entorno local

Para empezar, necesitará tener `git` instalado de forma local. Depending on your operating system, there are also a number of other dependencies required. Estas se detallan en la [guía de Building](../../../BUILDING.md).

Once you have `git` and are sure you have all of the necessary dependencies, it's time to create a fork.

### Paso 1: Bifurcación

Fork the project [on GitHub](https://github.com/nodejs/node) and clone your fork locally.

```text
$ git clone git@github.com:username/node.git
$ cd node
$ git remote add upstream https://github.com/nodejs/node.git
$ git fetch upstream
```

Se recomienda configurar `git` para que sepa quién es usted:

```text
$ git config user.name "J. Random User"
$ git config user.email "j.random.user@example.com"
```

You can use any name/email address you prefer here. We only use the metadata generated by `git` using this configuration for properly attributing your changes to you in the `AUTHORS` file and the changelog.

If you would like for the Github UI to link the commit to your account and award you the `Contributor` label after the changes have been merged, make sure this local email is also added to your [GitHub email list](https://github.com/settings/emails).

### Paso 2: Branch

As a best practice to keep your development environment as organized as possible, create local branches to work within. These should also be created directly off of the `master` branch.

```text
$ git checkout -b my-branch -t upstream/master
```

## El proceso de hacer cambios

### Paso 3: Código

The vast majority of Pull Requests opened against the `nodejs/node` repository includes changes to one or more of the following:

     - el código C/C ++ contenido en el directorio `src`
     - el código JavaScript contenido en el directorio `lib`
     - la documentación en `doc / api`
     - pruebas dentro del directorio `test`.
    

If you are modifying code, please be sure to run `make lint` from time to time to ensure that the changes follow the Node.js code style guide.

Any documentation you write (including code comments and API documentation) should follow the [Style Guide](../../STYLE_GUIDE.md). Code samples included in the API docs will also be checked when running `make lint` (or `vcbuild.bat lint` on Windows).

For contributing C++ code, you may want to look at the [C++ Style Guide](../../../CPP_STYLE_GUIDE.md).

### Paso 4: Commit

It is a recommended best practice to keep your changes as logically grouped as possible within individual commits. There is no limit to the number of commits any single Pull Request may have, and many contributors find it easier to review changes that are split across multiple commits.

```text
$ git add my/changed/files
$ git commit
```

Note that multiple commits often get squashed when they are landed (see the notes about [commit squashing](#commit-squashing)).

#### Pautas del mensaje Commit

Un buen mensaje de commit debe describir qué cambió y por qué.

1. La primera línea debe:
  
  * contain a short description of the change (preferably 50 characters or less, and no more than 72 characters)
  * be entirely in lowercase with the exception of proper nouns, acronyms, and the words that refer to code, like function/variable names
  * be prefixed with the name of the changed subsystem and start with an imperative verb. Check the output of `git log --oneline files/you/changed` to find out what subsystems your changes touch.
    
    Ejemplos (en inglés):
  
  * `net: add localAddress and localPort to Socket`
  
  * `src: fix typos in async_wrap.h`

2. Mantenga la segunda línea en blanco.

3. Envuelva todas las otras líneas en 72 columnas (a excepción de las URL largas).

4. If your patch fixes an open issue, you can add a reference to it at the end of the log. Utilice el prefijo `Fixes:` y la URL completa del problema. For other references use `Refs:`.
  
  Ejemplos:
  
  * `Fixes: https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/1337`
  * `Refs: http://eslint.org/docs/rules/space-in-parens.html`
  * `Refs: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/3615`

5. If your commit introduces a breaking change (`semver-major`), it should contain an explanation about the reason of the breaking change, which situation would trigger the breaking change and what is the exact change.

Ejemplo de mensaje de commit completo:

```txt
subsystem: explain the commit in one line

Body of commit message is a few lines of text, explaining things
in more detail, possibly giving some background about the issue
being fixed, etc.

The body of the commit message can be several paragraphs, and
please do proper word-wrap and keep columns shorter than about
72 characters or so. That way, `git log` will show things
nicely even when it is indented.

Fixes: https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/1337
Refs: http://eslint.org/docs/rules/space-in-parens.html
```

If you are new to contributing to Node.js, please try to do your best at conforming to these guidelines, but do not worry if you get something wrong. One of the existing contributors will help get things situated and the contributor landing the Pull Request will ensure that everything follows the project guidelines.

See [core-validate-commit](https://github.com/nodejs/core-validate-commit) - A utility that ensures commits follow the commit formatting guidelines.

### Paso 5: Rebase

As a best practice, once you have committed your changes, it is a good idea to use `git rebase` (not `git merge`) to synchronize your work with the main repository.

```text
$ git fetch upstream
$ git rebase upstream/master
```

This ensures that your working branch has the latest changes from `nodejs/node` master.

### Paso 6: Prueba

Las correcciones de errores y las funcionalidades siempre deben venir con pruebas. A [guide for writing tests in Node.js](../writing-tests.md) has been provided to make the process easier. Looking at other tests to see how they should be structured can also help.

The `test` directory within the `nodejs/node` repository is complex and it is often not clear where a new test file should go. When in doubt, add new tests to the `test/parallel/` directory and the right location will be sorted out later.

Before submitting your changes in a Pull Request, always run the full Node.js test suite. Para ejecutar las pruebas (incluyendo el linting de código) en Unix / macOS:

```text
$ ./configure && make -j4 test
```

Y en Windows:

```text
> vcbuild test
```

(Vea la [Building guide](../../../BUILDING.md) para más detalles.)

Asegúrese de que el linter no reporte ningún problema y que todas las pruebas pasen. Please do not submit patches that fail either check.

If you want to run the linter without running tests, use `make lint`/`vcbuild lint`. It will run both JavaScript linting and C++ linting.

Si está actualizando pruebas y sólo desea ejecutar una única prueba para verificarlo:

```text
$ python tools/test.py -J --mode=release parallel/test-stream2-transform
```

You can execute the entire suite of tests for a given subsystem by providing the name of a subsystem:

```text
$ python tools/test.py -J --mode=release child-process
```

If you want to check the other options, please refer to the help by using the `--help` option

```text
$ python tools/test.py --help
```

Por lo general, usted puede ejecutar pruebas directamente con node:

```text
$ ./node ./test/parallel/test-stream2-transform.js
```

Remember to recompile with `make -j4` in between test runs if you change code in the `lib` or `src` directories.

#### Cobertura de Prueba

Es una buena práctica asegurarse de que cualquier código que agregue o modifique esté cubierto por pruebas. Puede hacerlo ejecutando el conjunto de pruebas con cobertura habilitada:

```text
$ ./configure --coverage && make coverage
```

A detailed coverage report will be written to `coverage/index.html` for JavaScript coverage and to `coverage/cxxcoverage.html` for C++ coverage.

*Tenga en cuenta que generar una cobertura de prueba puede demorar varios minutos.*

To collect coverage for a subset of tests you can set the `CI_JS_SUITES` and `CI_NATIVE_SUITES` variables:

```text
$ CI_JS_SUITES=child-process CI_NATIVE_SUITES= make coverage
```

The above command executes tests for the `child-process` subsystem and outputs the resulting coverage report.

Running tests with coverage will create and modify several directories and files. Para limpiar después, ejecute:

```text
make coverage-clean
./configure && make -j4.
```

### Paso 7: Push

Once you are sure your commits are ready to go, with passing tests and linting, begin the process of opening a Pull Request by pushing your working branch to your fork on GitHub.

```text
$ git push origin my-branch
```

### Paso 8: Apertura de la Pull Request

From within GitHub, opening a new Pull Request will present you with a template that should be filled out:

```markdown
<!--
Thank you for your Pull Request. Please provide a description above and review
the requirements below.

Bug fixes and new features should include tests and possibly benchmarks.

Contributors guide: https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md
-->

#### Checklist
<!-- Remove items that do not apply. For completed items, change [ ] to [x]. -->

- [ ] `make -j4 test` (UNIX), or `vcbuild test` (Windows) passes
- [ ] tests and/or benchmarks are included
- [ ] documentation is changed or added
- [ ] commit message follows [commit guidelines](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/master/doc/guides/contributing/pull-requests.md#commit-message-guidelines)
```

Please try to do your best at filling out the details, but feel free to skip parts if you're not sure what to put.

Una vez abiertas, las Pull Requests generalmente son revisadas en unos pocos días.

### Paso 9: Discutir y actualizar

Probablemente recibirá un feedback o solicitudes de cambios a su Pull Request. Esta es una parte importante del proceso de envío, así que, ¡no se desanime! Some contributors may sign off on the Pull Request right away, others may have more detailed comments or feedback. This is a necessary part of the process in order to evaluate whether the changes are correct and necessary.

To make changes to an existing Pull Request, make the changes to your local branch, add a new commit with those changes, and push those to your fork. GitHub actualizará automáticamente la Pull Request.

```text
$ git add my/changed/files
$ git commit
$ git push origin my-branch
```

It is also frequently necessary to synchronize your Pull Request with other changes that have landed in `master` by using `git rebase`:

```text
$ git fetch --all
$ git rebase origin/master
$ git push --force-with-lease origin my-branch
```

**Important:** The `git push --force-with-lease` command is one of the few ways to delete history in `git`. Before you use it, make sure you understand the risks. If in doubt, you can always ask for guidance in the Pull Request or on [IRC in the #node-dev channel](https://webchat.freenode.net?channels=node-dev&uio=d4).

Si comete un error en cualquiera de sus commits, no se preocupe. You can amend the last commit (for example if you want to change the commit log).

```text
$ git add any/changed/files
$ git commit --amend
$ git push --force-with-lease origin my-branch
```

There are a number of more advanced mechanisms for managing commits using `git rebase` that can be used, but are beyond the scope of this guide.

Feel free to post a comment in the Pull Request to ping reviewers if you are awaiting an answer on something. If you encounter words or acronyms that seem unfamiliar, refer to this [glossary](https://sites.google.com/a/chromium.org/dev/glossary).

#### Flujo de trabajo de aprobación y cambios de solicitud

Todas las Pull Requests requieren "cerrar sesión" para poder "aterrizar". Whenever a contributor reviews a Pull Request they may find specific details that they would like to see changed or fixed. These may be as simple as fixing a typo, or may involve substantive changes to the code you have written. While such requests are intended to be helpful, they may come across as abrupt or unhelpful, especially requests to change things that do not include concrete suggestions on *how* to change them.

Trate de no desanimarse. If you feel that a particular review is unfair, say so, or contact one of the other contributors in the project and seek their input. Often such comments are the result of the reviewer having only taken a short amount of time to review and are not ill-intended. Such issues can often be resolved with a bit of patience. That said, reviewers should be expected to be helpful in their feedback, and feedback that is simply vague, dismissive and unhelpful is likely safe to ignore.

### Paso 10: Ejecutar

In order to land, a Pull Request needs to be reviewed and [approved](#getting-approvals-for-your-pull-request) by at least two Node.js Collaborators (one Collaborator approval is enough if the pull request has been open for more than 7 days) and pass a [CI (Continuous Integration) test run](#ci-testing). After that, as long as there are no objections from other contributors, the Pull Request can be merged. If you find your Pull Request waiting longer than you expect, see the [notes about the waiting time](#waiting-until-the-pull-request-gets-landed).

When a collaborator lands your Pull Request, they will post a comment to the Pull Request page mentioning the commit(s) it landed as. GitHub often shows the Pull Request as `Closed` at this point, but don't worry. If you look at the branch you raised your Pull Request against (probably `master`), you should see a commit with your name on it. ¡Felicidades y gracias por su contribución!

## Revisión de Pull Requests

All Node.js contributors who choose to review and provide feedback on Pull Requests have a responsibility to both the project and the individual making the contribution. Reviews and feedback must be helpful, insightful, and geared towards improving the contribution as opposed to simply blocking it. If there are reasons why you feel the PR should not land, explain what those are. Do not expect to be able to block a Pull Request from advancing simply because you say "No" without giving an explanation. Esté abierto a cambiar de opinión. Be open to working with the contributor to make the Pull Request better.

Reviews that are dismissive or disrespectful of the contributor or any other reviewers are strictly counter to the [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/nodejs/admin/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

When reviewing a Pull Request, the primary goals are for the codebase to improve and for the person submitting the request to succeed. Even if a Pull Request does not land, the submitters should come away from the experience feeling like their effort was not wasted or unappreciated. Every Pull Request from a new contributor is an opportunity to grow the community.

### Revise un poco a la vez.

No abrume a los nuevos contribuyentes.

It is tempting to micro-optimize and make everything about relative performance, perfect grammar, or exact style matches. No sucumba a esa tentación.

Enfóquese primero en los aspectos más significativos del cambio:

1. ¿Este cambio tiene sentido para Node.js?
2. ¿Este cambio hace que Node.js sea mejor, aunque solo sea incrementalmente?
3. ¿Hay errores claros o problemas de mayor escala que deben atenderse?
4. ¿El mensaje de el commit es legible y correcto? Si contiene un cambio de ruptura, ¿es lo suficientemente claro?

When changes are necessary, *request* them, do not *demand* them, and do not assume that the submitter already knows how to add a test or run a benchmark.

Specific performance optimization techniques, coding styles and conventions change over time. La primera impresión que le das a un nuevo colaborador nunca es así.

Nits (requests for small changes that are not essential) are fine, but try to avoid stalling the Pull Request. Most nits can typically be fixed by the Node.js Collaborator landing the Pull Request but they can also be an opportunity for the contributor to learn a bit more about the project.

It is always good to clearly indicate nits when you comment: e.g. `Nit: change foo() to bar(). But this is not blocking.`

If your comments were addressed but were not folded automatically after new commits or if they proved to be mistaken, please, [hide them](https://help.github.com/articles/managing-disruptive-comments/#hiding-a-comment) with the appropriate reason to keep the conversation flow concise and relevant.

### Tenga en cuenta a la persona detrás del código

Be aware that *how* you communicate requests and reviews in your feedback can have a significant impact on the success of the Pull Request. Yes, we may land a particular change that makes Node.js better, but the individual might just not want to have anything to do with Node.js ever again. The goal is not just having good code.

### Respete el tiempo de espera mínimo para los comentarios

There is a minimum waiting time which we try to respect for non-trivial changes, so that people who may have important input in such a distributed project are able to respond.

For non-trivial changes, Pull Requests must be left open for at least 48 hours. In most cases, when the PR is relatively small and focused on a narrow set of changes, that will provide more than enough time to adequately review. Sometimes changes take far longer to review, or need more specialized review from subject matter experts. En caso de dudas, no se apresure.

Trivial changes, typically limited to small formatting changes or fixes to documentation, may be landed within the minimum 48 hour window.

### Pull Requests abandonadas o paralizadas

If a Pull Request appears to be abandoned or stalled, it is polite to first check with the contributor to see if they intend to continue the work before checking if they would mind if you took it over (especially if it just has nits left). When doing so, it is courteous to give the original contributor credit for the work they started (either by preserving their name and email address in the commit log, or by using an `Author:` meta-data tag in the commit.

### Aprobar un cambio

Any Node.js core Collaborator (any GitHub user with commit rights in the `nodejs/node` repository) is authorized to approve any other contributor's work. Los colaboradores no tienen permitido aprobar sus propias Pull Requests.

Collaborators indicate that they have reviewed and approve of the changes in a Pull Request either by using GitHub's Approval Workflow, which is preferred, or by leaving an `LGTM` ("Looks Good To Me") comment.

When explicitly using the "Changes requested" component of the GitHub Approval Workflow, show empathy. That is, do not be rude or abrupt with your feedback and offer concrete suggestions for improvement, if possible. If you're not sure *how* a particular change can be improved, say so.

Most importantly, after leaving such requests, it is courteous to make yourself available later to check whether your comments have been addressed.

If you see that requested changes have been made, you can clear another collaborator's `Changes requested` review.

Change requests that are vague, dismissive, or unconstructive may also be dismissed if requests for greater clarification go unanswered within a reasonable period of time.

If you do not believe that the Pull Request should land at all, use `Changes requested` to indicate that you are considering some of your comments to block the PR from landing. When doing so, explain *why* you believe the Pull Request should not land along with an explanation of what may be an acceptable alternative course, if any.

### Acepte que hay opiniones diferentes sobre lo que pertenece a Node.js

Opinions on this vary, even among the members of the Technical Steering Committee.

One general rule of thumb is that if Node.js itself needs it (due to historic or functional reasons), then it belongs in Node.js. For instance, `url` parsing is in Node.js because of HTTP protocol support.

Also, functionality that either cannot be implemented outside of core in any reasonable way, or only with significant pain.

It is not uncommon for contributors to suggest new features they feel would make Node.js better. These may or may not make sense to add, but as with all changes, be courteous in how you communicate your stance on these. Comments that make the contributor feel like they should have "known better" or ridiculed for even trying run counter to the [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/nodejs/admin/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

### El rendimiento no es todo

Node.js siempre se ha optimizado para la velocidad de ejecución. If a particular change can be shown to make some part of Node.js faster, it's quite likely to be accepted. Claims that a particular Pull Request will make things faster will almost always be met by requests for performance [benchmark results](../writing-and-running-benchmarks.md) that demonstrate the improvement.

Dicho esto, el rendimiento no es el único factor a considerar. Node.js also optimizes in favor of not breaking existing code in the ecosystem, and not changing working functional code just for the sake of changing.

If a particular Pull Request introduces a performance or functional regression, rather than simply rejecting the Pull Request, take the time to work *with* the contributor on improving the change. Offer feedback and advice on what would make the Pull Request acceptable, and do not assume that the contributor should already know how to do that. Be explicit in your feedback.

### Pruebas de integración continua

All Pull Requests that contain changes to code must be run through continuous integration (CI) testing at <https://ci.nodejs.org/>.

Only Node.js core Collaborators with commit rights to the `nodejs/node` repository may start a CI testing run. The specific details of how to do this are included in the new Collaborator [Onboarding guide](../../onboarding.md).

Ideally, the code change will pass ("be green") on all platform configurations supported by Node.js (there are over 30 platform configurations currently). Esto significa que todas las pruebas pasan y no hay errores de linting. In reality, however, it is not uncommon for the CI infrastructure itself to fail on specific platforms or for so-called "flaky" tests to fail ("be red"). It is vital to visually inspect the results of all failed ("red") tests to determine whether the failure was caused by the changes in the Pull Request.

## Notas

### Commit Squashing

In most cases, do not squash commits that you add to your Pull Request during the review process. When the commits in your Pull Request land, they may be squashed into one commit per logical change. Metadata will be added to the commit message (including links to the Pull Request, links to relevant issues, and the names of the reviewers). The commit history of your Pull Request, however, will stay intact on the Pull Request page.

For the size of "one logical change", [0b5191f](https://github.com/nodejs/node/commit/0b5191f15d0f311c804d542b67e2e922d98834f8) can be a good example. It touches the implementation, the documentation, and the tests, but is still one logical change. All tests should always pass when each individual commit lands on the master branch.

### Obtención de Aprobaciones para su Pull Request

A Pull Request is approved either by saying LGTM, which stands for "Looks Good To Me", or by using GitHub's Approve button. La función de revisión de Pull Request de GitHub puede ser utilizada durante el proceso. For more information, check out [the video tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HW0RPaJqm4g) or [the official documentation](https://help.github.com/articles/reviewing-changes-in-pull-requests/).

After you push new changes to your branch, you need to get approval for these new changes again, even if GitHub shows "Approved" because the reviewers have hit the buttons before.

### Prueba de CI

Every Pull Request needs to be tested to make sure that it works on the platforms that Node.js supports. Esto se hace ejecutando el código a través del sistema CI.

Sólo un Colaborador puede iniciar una ejecución de CI. Usually one of them will do it for you as approvals for the Pull Request come in. De lo contrario, puede pedirle a un Colaborador que inicie una ejecución de CI.

### Esperar hasta que se aterrice la Pull Request

A Pull Request needs to stay open for at least 48 hours from when it is submitted, even after it gets approved and passes the CI. This is to make sure that everyone has a chance to weigh in. If the changes are trivial, collaborators may decide it doesn't need to wait. A Pull Request may well take longer to be merged in. All these precautions are important because Node.js is widely used, so don't be discouraged!

### Consulte la Guía del Colaborador

If you want to know more about the code review and the landing process, see the [Collaborator Guide](../../../COLLABORATOR_GUIDE.md).