# V8

<!--introduced_in=v4.0.0-->

The `v8` module exposes APIs that are specific to the version of [V8](https://developers.google.com/v8/) built into the Node.js binary. It can be accessed using:

```js
const v8 = require('v8');
```

The APIs and implementation are subject to change at any time.

## `v8.cachedDataVersionTag()`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

* 返回：{integer}

Returns an integer representing a "version tag" derived from the V8 version, command line flags and detected CPU features. This is useful for determining whether a [`vm.Script`][] `cachedData` buffer is compatible with this instance of V8.

## `v8.getHeapSpaceStatistics()`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.0.0
changes:
  - version: v7.5.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10186
    description: Support values exceeding the 32-bit unsigned integer range.
-->

* 返回: {Object[]}

Returns statistics about the V8 heap spaces, i.e. the segments which make up the V8 heap. Neither the ordering of heap spaces, nor the availability of a heap space can be guaranteed as the statistics are provided via the V8 [`GetHeapSpaceStatistics`][] function and may change from one V8 version to the next.

The value returned is an array of objects containing the following properties:

* `space_name` {string}
* `space_size` {number}
* `space_used_size` {number}
* `space_available_size` {number}
* `physical_space_size` {number}

```json
[
  {
    "space_name": "new_space",
    "space_size": 2063872,
    "space_used_size": 951112,
    "space_available_size": 80824,
    "physical_space_size": 2063872
  },
  {
    "space_name": "old_space",
    "space_size": 3090560,
    "space_used_size": 2493792,
    "space_available_size": 0,
    "physical_space_size": 3090560
  },
  {
    "space_name": "code_space",
    "space_size": 1260160,
    "space_used_size": 644256,
    "space_available_size": 960,
    "physical_space_size": 1260160
  },
  {
    "space_name": "map_space",
    "space_size": 1094160,
    "space_used_size": 201608,
    "space_available_size": 0,
    "physical_space_size": 1094160
  },
  {
    "space_name": "large_object_space",
    "space_size": 0,
    "space_used_size": 0,
    "space_available_size": 1490980608,
    "physical_space_size": 0
  }
]
```

## `v8.getHeapSnapshot()`
<!-- YAML
added: v11.13.0
-->

* Returns: {stream.Readable} A Readable Stream containing the V8 heap snapshot

Generates a snapshot of the current V8 heap and returns a Readable Stream that may be used to read the JSON serialized representation. This JSON stream format is intended to be used with tools such as Chrome DevTools. The JSON schema is undocumented and specific to the V8 engine, and may change from one version of V8 to the next.

```js
const stream = v8.getHeapSnapshot();
stream.pipe(process.stdout);
```

## `v8.getHeapStatistics()`
<!-- YAML
added: v1.0.0
changes:
  - version: v7.2.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/8610
    description: Added `malloced_memory`, `peak_malloced_memory`,
                 and `does_zap_garbage`.
  - version: v7.5.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10186
    description: Support values exceeding the 32-bit unsigned integer range.
-->

* 返回：{Object}

Returns an object with the following properties:

* `total_heap_size` {number}
* `total_heap_size_executable` {number}
* `total_physical_size` {number}
* `total_available_size` {number}
* `used_heap_size` {number}
* `heap_size_limit` {number}
* `malloced_memory` {number}
* `peak_malloced_memory` {number}
* `does_zap_garbage` {number}
* `number_of_native_contexts` {number}
* `number_of_detached_contexts` {number}

`does_zap_garbage` is a 0/1 boolean, which signifies whether the `--zap_code_space` option is enabled or not. This makes V8 overwrite heap garbage with a bit pattern. The RSS footprint (resident memory set) gets bigger because it continuously touches all heap pages and that makes them less likely to get swapped out by the operating system.

`number_of_native_contexts` The value of native_context is the number of the top-level contexts currently active. Increase of this number over time indicates a memory leak.

`number_of_detached_contexts` The value of detached_context is the number of contexts that were detached and not yet garbage collected. This number being non-zero indicates a potential memory leak.
```js
{
  total_heap_size: 7326976,
  total_heap_size_executable: 4194304,
  total_physical_size: 7326976,
  total_available_size: 1152656,
  used_heap_size: 3476208,
  heap_size_limit: 1535115264,
  malloced_memory: 16384,
  peak_malloced_memory: 1127496,
  does_zap_garbage: 0,
  number_of_native_contexts: 1,
  number_of_detached_contexts: 0
}
```

## `v8.getHeapCodeStatistics()`<!-- YAML
added: v12.8.0
-->* 返回：{Object}

Returns an object with the following properties:

* `code_and_metadata_size` {number}
* `bytecode_and_metadata_size` {number}
* `external_script_source_size` {number}
```js
{
  code_and_metadata_size: 212208,
  bytecode_and_metadata_size: 161368,
  external_script_source_size: 1410794
}
```

## `v8.setFlagsFromString(flags)`<!-- YAML
added: v1.0.0
-->* `flags` {string}

The `v8.setFlagsFromString()` method can be used to programmatically set V8 command line flags. This method should be used with care. Changing settings after the VM has started may result in unpredictable behavior, including crashes and data loss; or it may simply do nothing.

The V8 options available for a version of Node.js may be determined by running `node --v8-options`.

Usage:

```js
// Print GC events to stdout for one minute.
const v8 = require('v8');
v8.setFlagsFromString('--trace_gc');
setTimeout(() => { v8.setFlagsFromString('--notrace_gc'); }, 60e3);
```

## `v8.writeHeapSnapshot([filename])`<!-- YAML
added: v11.13.0
-->* `filename` {string} The file path where the V8 heap snapshot is to be saved. If not specified, a file name with the pattern `'Heap-${yyyymmdd}-${hhmmss}-${pid}-${thread_id}.heapsnapshot'` will be generated, where `{pid}` will be the PID of the Node.js process, `{thread_id}` will be `0` when `writeHeapSnapshot()` is called from the main Node.js thread or the id of a worker thread.
* Returns: {string} The filename where the snapshot was saved.

Generates a snapshot of the current V8 heap and writes it to a JSON file. This file is intended to be used with tools such as Chrome DevTools. The JSON schema is undocumented and specific to the V8 engine, and may change from one version of V8 to the next.

A heap snapshot is specific to a single V8 isolate. When using [Worker Threads](worker_threads.html), a heap snapshot generated from the main thread will not contain any information about the workers, and vice versa.

```js
const { writeHeapSnapshot } = require('v8');
const {
  Worker,
  isMainThread,
  parentPort
} = require('worker_threads');

if (isMainThread) {
  const worker = new Worker(__filename);

  worker.once('message', (filename) => {
    console.log(`worker heapdump: ${filename}`);
    // Now get a heapdump for the main thread.
    console.log(`main thread heapdump: ${writeHeapSnapshot()}`);
  });

  // Tell the worker to create a heapdump.
  worker.postMessage('heapdump');
} else {
  parentPort.once('message', (message) => {
    if (message === 'heapdump') {
      // Generate a heapdump for the worker
      // and return the filename to the parent.
      parentPort.postMessage(writeHeapSnapshot());
    }
  });
}
```

## 序列化 API

The serialization API provides means of serializing JavaScript values in a way that is compatible with the [HTML structured clone algorithm](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Structured_clone_algorithm). 其格式是向后兼容的（例如：可安全存储到磁盘）

### `v8.serialize(value)`<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->* `value` {any}
* 返回：{Buffer}

使用 [`DefaultSerializer`][] 来将 `value` 序列化到缓冲区中。

### `v8.deserialize(buffer)`<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->* `buffer` {Buffer|TypedArray|DataView} 由 [`serialize()`][] 返回的缓冲区。

Uses a [`DefaultDeserializer`][] with default options to read a JS value from a buffer.

### Class: `v8.Serializer`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

#### `new Serializer()`
创建一个新的 `Serializer` 对象。

#### `serializer.writeHeader()`

写出一个头信息，其中包含序列化格式版本。

#### `serializer.writeValue(value)`

* `value` {any}

Serializes a JavaScript value and adds the serialized representation to the internal buffer.

如果 `value` 不能被序列化，则抛出一个错误。

#### `serializer.releaseBuffer()`

* 返回：{Buffer}

返回已存储的内部缓冲区。 This serializer should not be used once the buffer is released. Calling this method results in undefined behavior if a previous write has failed.

#### `serializer.transferArrayBuffer(id, arrayBuffer)`

* `id` {integer} 一个32位无符号整数。
* `arrayBuffer` {ArrayBuffer} 一个 `ArrayBuffer` 实例。

Marks an `ArrayBuffer` as having its contents transferred out of band. Pass the corresponding `ArrayBuffer` in the deserializing context to [`deserializer.transferArrayBuffer()`][].

#### `serializer.writeUint32(value)`

* `value` {integer}

写一个原始的32位无符号整数。 用于自定义的 [`serializer._writeHostObject()`][] 中。

#### `serializer.writeUint64(hi, lo)`

* `hi` {integer}
* `lo` {integer}

写一个原始的64位无符号整数，并将其拆分为32位的高低两部分。 用于自定义的 [`serializer._writeHostObject()`][] 中。

#### `serializer.writeDouble(value)`

* `value` {number}

写一个 JS `number` 数值。 用于自定义的 [`serializer._writeHostObject()`][] 中。

#### `serializer.writeRawBytes(buffer)`

* `buffer` {Buffer|TypedArray|DataView}

将原始字节写入序列化程序内部缓冲区。 The deserializer will require a way to compute the length of the buffer. 用于自定义的 [`serializer._writeHostObject()`][] 中。

#### `serializer._writeHostObject(object)`

* `object` {Object}

This method is called to write some kind of host object, i.e. an object created by native C++ bindings. If it is not possible to serialize `object`, a suitable exception should be thrown.

This method is not present on the `Serializer` class itself but can be provided by subclasses.

#### `serializer._getDataCloneError(message)`

* `message` {string}

This method is called to generate error objects that will be thrown when an object can not be cloned.

This method defaults to the [`Error`][] constructor and can be overridden on subclasses.

#### `serializer._getSharedArrayBufferId(sharedArrayBuffer)`

* `sharedArrayBuffer` {SharedArrayBuffer}

This method is called when the serializer is going to serialize a `SharedArrayBuffer` object. It must return an unsigned 32-bit integer ID for the object, using the same ID if this `SharedArrayBuffer` has already been serialized. When deserializing, this ID will be passed to [`deserializer.transferArrayBuffer()`][].

如果无法序列化对象，则应抛出异常。

This method is not present on the `Serializer` class itself but can be provided by subclasses.

#### `serializer._setTreatArrayBufferViewsAsHostObjects(flag)`

* `flag` {boolean} **Default:** `false`

Indicate whether to treat `TypedArray` and `DataView` objects as host objects, i.e. pass them to [`serializer._writeHostObject()`][].

### Class: `v8.Deserializer`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

#### `new Deserializer(buffer)`

* `buffer` {Buffer|TypedArray|DataView} A buffer returned by [`serializer.releaseBuffer()`][].

创建一个新的 `Deserializer` 对象。

#### `deserializer.readHeader()`

读取并验证一个头信息 （包括格式版本）。 例如，可以拒绝一个非法或不被支持的传输格式。 In that case, an `Error` is thrown.

#### `deserializer.readValue()`

从缓冲区中反序列化一个 JavaScript 值并返回它。

#### `deserializer.transferArrayBuffer(id, arrayBuffer)`

* `id` {integer} 一个32位无符号整数。
* `arrayBuffer` {ArrayBuffer|SharedArrayBuffer} 一个 `ArrayBuffer` 实例。

Marks an `ArrayBuffer` as having its contents transferred out of band. Pass the corresponding `ArrayBuffer` in the serializing context to [`serializer.transferArrayBuffer()`][] (or return the `id` from [`serializer._getSharedArrayBufferId()`][] in the case of `SharedArrayBuffer`s).

#### `deserializer.getWireFormatVersion()`

* 返回：{integer}

读取底层的传输格式版本。 Likely mostly to be useful to legacy code reading old wire format versions. May not be called before `.readHeader()`.

#### `deserializer.readUint32()`

* 返回：{integer}

读取原始32位无符号整数并将其返回。 用于在自定义 [`deserializer._readHostObject()`][] 中使用。

#### `deserializer.readUint64()`

* Returns: {integer[]}

Read a raw 64-bit unsigned integer and return it as an array `[hi, lo]` with two 32-bit unsigned integer entries. 用于在自定义 [`deserializer._readHostObject()`][] 中使用。

#### `deserializer.readDouble()`

* 返回：{number}

读取一个 JS `number` 值。 用于在自定义 [`deserializer._readHostObject()`][] 中使用。

#### `deserializer.readRawBytes(length)`

* `length` {integer}
* 返回：{Buffer}

从反序列化程序内部缓冲区中读取原始字节。 The `length` parameter must correspond to the length of the buffer that was passed to [`serializer.writeRawBytes()`][]. 用于在自定义 [`deserializer._readHostObject()`][] 中使用。

#### `deserializer._readHostObject()`

This method is called to read some kind of host object, i.e. an object that is created by native C++ bindings. If it is not possible to deserialize the data, a suitable exception should be thrown.

This method is not present on the `Deserializer` class itself but can be provided by subclasses.

### Class: `v8.DefaultSerializer`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

A subclass of [`Serializer`][] that serializes `TypedArray` (in particular [`Buffer`][]) and `DataView` objects as host objects, and only stores the part of their underlying `ArrayBuffer`s that they are referring to.

### Class: `v8.DefaultDeserializer`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

A subclass of [`Deserializer`][] corresponding to the format written by [`DefaultSerializer`][].
