# V8

<!--introduced_in=v4.0.0-->

El módulo `v8` expone las APIs que son específicas a la versión de [V8](https://developers.google.com/v8/) incorporada en el binario de Node.js. Se puede acceder al mismo utilizando:

```js
const v8 = require('v8');
```

Las APIs y la implementación están sujetas a cambios en cualquier momento.

## `v8.cachedDataVersionTag()`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

* Devuelve: {integer}

Returns an integer representing a "version tag" derived from the V8 version, command line flags and detected CPU features. This is useful for determining whether a [`vm.Script`][] `cachedData` buffer is compatible with this instance of V8.

## `v8.getHeapSpaceStatistics()`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.0.0
changes:
  - version: v7.5.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10186
    description: Support values exceeding the 32-bit unsigned integer range.
-->

* Retorno: {Object[]}

Devuelve estadísticas sobre los espacios del montículo de V8, por ejemplo, los segmentos que conforman el montículo de V8. No se puede garantizar ni la clasificación de los espacios del montículo, ni la disponibilidad de un espacio de montículo, ya que las estadísticas son proporcionadas por medio de la función [`GetHeapSpaceStatistics`][] de V8 y puede cambiar de una versión de V8 a la siguiente.

El valor devuelto es una matriz de objetos que contiene las siguientes propiedades:

* `space_name` {string}
* `space_size` {number}
* `space_used_size` {number}
* `space_available_size` {number}
* `physical_space_size` {number}

```json
[
  {
    "space_name": "new_space",
    "space_size": 2063872,
    "space_used_size": 951112,
    "space_available_size": 80824,
    "physical_space_size": 2063872
  },
  {
    "space_name": "old_space",
    "space_size": 3090560,
    "space_used_size": 2493792,
    "space_available_size": 0,
    "physical_space_size": 3090560
  },
  {
    "space_name": "code_space",
    "space_size": 1260160,
    "space_used_size": 644256,
    "space_available_size": 960,
    "physical_space_size": 1260160
  },
  {
    "space_name": "map_space",
    "space_size": 1094160,
    "space_used_size": 201608,
    "space_available_size": 0,
    "physical_space_size": 1094160
  },
  {
    "space_name": "large_object_space",
    "space_size": 0,
    "space_used_size": 0,
    "space_available_size": 1490980608,
    "physical_space_size": 0
  }
]
```

## `v8.getHeapSnapshot()`
<!-- YAML
added: v11.13.0
-->

* Returns: {stream.Readable} A Readable Stream containing the V8 heap snapshot

Generates a snapshot of the current V8 heap and returns a Readable Stream that may be used to read the JSON serialized representation. This JSON stream format is intended to be used with tools such as Chrome DevTools. The JSON schema is undocumented and specific to the V8 engine, and may change from one version of V8 to the next.

```js
const stream = v8.getHeapSnapshot();
stream.pipe(process.stdout);
```

## `v8.getHeapStatistics()`
<!-- YAML
added: v1.0.0
changes:
  - version: v7.2.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/8610
    description: Added `malloced_memory`, `peak_malloced_memory`,
                 and `does_zap_garbage`.
  - version: v7.5.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10186
    description: Support values exceeding the 32-bit unsigned integer range.
-->

* Devuelve: {Object}

Devuelve un objeto con las siguientes propiedades:

* `total_heap_size` {number}
* `total_heap_size_executable` {number}
* `total_physical_size` {number}
* `total_available_size` {number}
* `used_heap_size` {number}
* `heap_size_limit` {number}
* `malloced_memory` {number}
* `peak_malloced_memory` {number}
* `does_zap_garbage` {number}
* `number_of_native_contexts` {number}
* `number_of_detached_contexts` {number}

`does_zap_garbage` is a 0/1 boolean, which signifies whether the `--zap_code_space` option is enabled or not. This makes V8 overwrite heap garbage with a bit pattern. The RSS footprint (resident memory set) gets bigger because it continuously touches all heap pages and that makes them less likely to get swapped out by the operating system.

`number_of_native_contexts` The value of native_context is the number of the top-level contexts currently active. Increase of this number over time indicates a memory leak.

`number_of_detached_contexts` The value of detached_context is the number of contexts that were detached and not yet garbage collected. This number being non-zero indicates a potential memory leak.
```js
{
  total_heap_size: 7326976,
  total_heap_size_executable: 4194304,
  total_physical_size: 7326976,
  total_available_size: 1152656,
  used_heap_size: 3476208,
  heap_size_limit: 1535115264,
  malloced_memory: 16384,
  peak_malloced_memory: 1127496,
  does_zap_garbage: 0,
  number_of_native_contexts: 1,
  number_of_detached_contexts: 0
}
```

## `v8.getHeapCodeStatistics()`<!-- YAML
added: v12.8.0
-->* Devuelve: {Object}

Devuelve un objeto con las siguientes propiedades:

* `code_and_metadata_size` {number}
* `bytecode_and_metadata_size` {number}
* `external_script_source_size` {number}
```js
{
  code_and_metadata_size: 212208,
  bytecode_and_metadata_size: 161368,
  external_script_source_size: 1410794
}
```

## `v8.setFlagsFromString(flags)`<!-- YAML
added: v1.0.0
-->* `flags` {string}

El método `v8.setFlagsFromString()` puede ser utilizado para establecer mediante programación las banderas de línea de comando de V8. Este método debería ser utilizado con cuidado. Cambiar los ajustes luego de que se haya iniciado el VM puede dar como resultado un comportamiento impredecible, incluyendo caídas y pérdida de datos; o simplemente puede no ocasionar nada.

Las opciones disponibles de V8 para una versión de Node.js pueden ser determinadas ejecutando `node --v8-options`.

Uso:

```js
// Imprime eventos GC en stdout por un minuto.
const v8 = require('v8');
v8.setFlagsFromString('--trace_gc');
setTimeout(() => { v8.setFlagsFromString('--notrace_gc'); }, 60e3);
```

## `v8.writeHeapSnapshot([filename])`<!-- YAML
added: v11.13.0
-->* `filename` {string} The file path where the V8 heap snapshot is to be saved. If not specified, a file name with the pattern `'Heap-${yyyymmdd}-${hhmmss}-${pid}-${thread_id}.heapsnapshot'` will be generated, where `{pid}` will be the PID of the Node.js process, `{thread_id}` will be `0` when `writeHeapSnapshot()` is called from the main Node.js thread or the id of a worker thread.
* Returns: {string} The filename where the snapshot was saved.

Generates a snapshot of the current V8 heap and writes it to a JSON file. This file is intended to be used with tools such as Chrome DevTools. The JSON schema is undocumented and specific to the V8 engine, and may change from one version of V8 to the next.

A heap snapshot is specific to a single V8 isolate. When using [Worker Threads](worker_threads.html), a heap snapshot generated from the main thread will not contain any information about the workers, and vice versa.

```js
const { writeHeapSnapshot } = require('v8');
const {
  Worker,
  isMainThread,
  parentPort
} = require('worker_threads');

if (isMainThread) {
  const worker = new Worker(__filename);

  worker.once('message', (filename) => {
    console.log(`worker heapdump: ${filename}`);
    // Now get a heapdump for the main thread.
    console.log(`main thread heapdump: ${writeHeapSnapshot()}`);
  });

  // Tell the worker to create a heapdump.
  worker.postMessage('heapdump');
} else {
  parentPort.once('message', (message) => {
    if (message === 'heapdump') {
      // Generate a heapdump for the worker
      // and return the filename to the parent.
      parentPort.postMessage(writeHeapSnapshot());
    }
  });
}
```

## API de Serialización

The serialization API provides means of serializing JavaScript values in a way that is compatible with the [HTML structured clone algorithm](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Structured_clone_algorithm).

El formato es retrocompatible (es decir, seguro para almacenar en disco). Equal JavaScript values may result in different serialized output.

### `v8.serialize(valor)`<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->* `value` {any}
* Devuelve: {Buffer}

Utiliza un [`DefaultSerializer`][] para serializar `value` en un búfer.

### `v8.deserialize(búfer)`<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->* `buffer` {Buffer|TypedArray|DataView} A buffer returned by [`serialize()`][].

Uses a [`DefaultDeserializer`][] with default options to read a JS value from a buffer.

### Class: `v8.Serializer`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

#### `new Serializer()`
Crea un nuevo objeto `Serializer`.

#### `serializer.writeHeader()`

Writes out a header, which includes the serialization format version.

#### `serializer.writeValue(valor)`

* `value` {any}

Serializes a JavaScript value and adds the serialized representation to the internal buffer.

Esto arroja un error si no se puede serializar `value`.

#### `serializer.releaseBuffer()`

* Devuelve: {Buffer}

Devuelve el buffer interno almacenado. This serializer should not be used once the buffer is released. Calling this method results in undefined behavior if a previous write has failed.

#### `serializer.transferArrayBuffer(id, arrayBuffer)`

* `id` {integer} Un entero de 32 bits sin signo.
* `arrayBuffer` {ArrayBuffer} Una instancia `ArrayBuffer`.

Marks an `ArrayBuffer` as having its contents transferred out of band. Pass the corresponding `ArrayBuffer` in the deserializing context to [`deserializer.transferArrayBuffer()`][].

#### `serializer.writeUint32(value)`

* `value` {integer}

Write a raw 32-bit unsigned integer. Para el uso dentro de un [`serializer._writeHostObject()`][] personalizado.

#### `serializer.writeUint64(hi, lo)`

* `hi` {integer}
* `lo` {integer}

Write a raw 64-bit unsigned integer, split into high and low 32-bit parts. Para el uso dentro de un [`serializer._writeHostObject()`][] personalizado.

#### `serializer.writeDouble(valor)`

* `value` {number}

Escribe un valor `number` de JS. Para el uso dentro de un [`serializer._writeHostObject()`][] personalizado.

#### `serializer.writeRawBytes(buffer)`

* `buffer` {Buffer|TypedArray|DataView}

Write raw bytes into the serializer’s internal buffer. The deserializer will require a way to compute the length of the buffer. Para el uso dentro de un [`serializer._writeHostObject()`][] personalizado.

#### `serializer._writeHostObject(object)`

* `object` {Object}

This method is called to write some kind of host object, i.e. an object created by native C++ bindings. If it is not possible to serialize `object`, a suitable exception should be thrown.

This method is not present on the `Serializer` class itself but can be provided by subclasses.

#### `serializer._getDataCloneError(message)`

* `message` {string}

This method is called to generate error objects that will be thrown when an object can not be cloned.

This method defaults to the [`Error`][] constructor and can be overridden on subclasses.

#### `serializer._getSharedArrayBufferId(sharedArrayBuffer)`

* `sharedArrayBuffer` {SharedArrayBuffer}

This method is called when the serializer is going to serialize a `SharedArrayBuffer` object. It must return an unsigned 32-bit integer ID for the object, using the same ID if this `SharedArrayBuffer` has already been serialized. When deserializing, this ID will be passed to [`deserializer.transferArrayBuffer()`][].

Si el objeto no puede ser serializado, se debe arrojar una excepción.

This method is not present on the `Serializer` class itself but can be provided by subclasses.

#### `serializer._setTreatArrayBufferViewsAsHostObjects(flag)`

* `flag` {boolean} **Default:** `false`

Indicate whether to treat `TypedArray` and `DataView` objects as host objects, i.e. pass them to [`serializer._writeHostObject()`][].

### Class: `v8.Deserializer`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

#### `new Deserializer(búfer)`

* `buffer` {Buffer|TypedArray|DataView} A buffer returned by [`serializer.releaseBuffer()`][].

Crea un nuevo objeto `Deserializer`.

#### `deserializer.readHeader()`

Lee y valida una cabecera (incluyendo la versión de formato). Puede, por ejemplo, rechazar un formato de wire inválido o no soportado. In that case, an `Error` is thrown.

#### `deserializer.readValue()`

Deserializa un valor de JavaScript del buffer y lo devuelve.

#### `deserializer.transferArrayBuffer(id, arrayBuffer)`

* `id` {integer} Un entero de 32 bits sin signo.
* `arrayBuffer` {ArrayBuffer|SharedArrayBuffer} Una instancia de `ArrayBuffer`.

Marks an `ArrayBuffer` as having its contents transferred out of band. Pass the corresponding `ArrayBuffer` in the serializing context to [`serializer.transferArrayBuffer()`][] (or return the `id` from [`serializer._getSharedArrayBufferId()`][] in the case of `SharedArrayBuffer`s).

#### `deserializer.getWireFormatVersion()`

* Devuelve: {integer}

Reads the underlying wire format version. Likely mostly to be useful to legacy code reading old wire format versions. May not be called before `.readHeader()`.

#### `deserializer.readUint32()`

* Devuelve: {integer}

Read a raw 32-bit unsigned integer and return it. Para el uso dentro de un [`deserializer._readHostObject()`][] personalizado.

#### `deserializer.readUint64()`

* Devuelve: {integer[]}

Read a raw 64-bit unsigned integer and return it as an array `[hi, lo]` with two 32-bit unsigned integer entries. Para el uso dentro de un [`deserializer._readHostObject()`][] personalizado.

#### `deserializer.readDouble()`

* Devuelve: {number}

Lee un valor `number` de JS. Para el uso dentro de un [`deserializer._readHostObject()`][] personalizado.

#### `deserializer.readRawBytes(longitud)`

* `length` {integer}
* Devuelve: {Buffer}

Read raw bytes from the deserializer’s internal buffer. The `length` parameter must correspond to the length of the buffer that was passed to [`serializer.writeRawBytes()`][]. Para el uso dentro de un [`deserializer._readHostObject()`][] personalizado.

#### `deserializer._readHostObject()`

This method is called to read some kind of host object, i.e. an object that is created by native C++ bindings. If it is not possible to deserialize the data, a suitable exception should be thrown.

This method is not present on the `Deserializer` class itself but can be provided by subclasses.

### Class: `v8.DefaultSerializer`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

A subclass of [`Serializer`][] that serializes `TypedArray` (in particular [`Buffer`][]) and `DataView` objects as host objects, and only stores the part of their underlying `ArrayBuffer`s that they are referring to.

### Class: `v8.DefaultDeserializer`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

A subclass of [`Deserializer`][] corresponding to the format written by [`DefaultSerializer`][].
